
[Extracted from 0295655d-81ab-4fdf-a7d2-c4661cabe311.jpg]
2, 2025 s BOTH SIDES CONFIRMED THE HALT AFTERA KEY TRANSIT DEAL EXPIRED Russia and Ukraine cease five 0 ear er start decades of gas transit to EU armer uld ouilding" ged the o Ukraine to give  faces in lion ($93 million) more a year to RUSSIAN GAS FLOWS THROUGH UKRAINE guarantee stable imports through  up long-held nigh different routes. Sudzha RusSiA strategic position  BELARUS entry. It alsowarned that in the event point  Main gas of a cold winter, all of Europe has Ukrainian incursion pipelines been left more vulnerable. un PRISCILA AzEVEDO ROCHA, POLAND in Russian territory Other gas DANIELHORNAK &ANNA Deal Ends rm  pipelines SHIRYAEVSKAYA SLOVAK . UKRAINE Gazprom halted supplies on  January 1 New Year's Day after the five-year. Note: Only the portion SELL its transit deal expired, citing a lack of of pipelines that run. n Art  Russian gas stopped flowing through Ukraine are "technical and legal opportunities"  displayed on the map apital for  to Europe via Ukraine,closing offa Sokhranivka for shipments amid "repeated and ROMANIA entry point Sources: The Institute billion route that's operated for five Odesa (stopped for the Study of war explicit refusalofthe Ukrainian side m  decades after Kyiv refused to allow S ev as to pol operations assessed areas of to extend these agreements' The 1n 2022) control as of Sept. 5; ocus any transit that funds Moscow's Bock Sea stop was confirmed by Ukraine's 200 mi Ukrainian territory. The Oxford Instit ute s. war machine. under Russian territory for Energy Energy Ministry, which said Russ- 200 km . Both sides confirmed the halt St udies/Bloomberg ian flows across its territory ceased ked on Wednesday after a key transit as of 7 a.m. local time.  deal expired. The stoppage means The stoppage While there'snoriskofan imme- stake central European countries that  means central diate shortfall in Europe, the stop- have relied on the flows will be Europe will be  page may make stockpiling more nn forced to source more expensive forced to source challenging ahead of the next heat- RM gas elsewhere, compoundingpres-  more expensive gas  ing season. The region's inventories d by sure on supplies just as the region The route have been shrinking rapidly and are depletes winter storage at the accounts for 5% now below 75% full. With Russia's  agreed nit for fastest pace in years. of Europe's needs piped flows to Europe diminished, Whiletheroute accountsforjust President Vladimir Putin will likely group  For Russia, the 5% of Europe's needs, nations are double down on efforts to boost LNG. and loss of one ofits two  still reeling from the aftershocks of remaining gas- shipments,longapersonalambition. ses. an energy crisis triggered by Rus- Despite calls by some European pipeline routes to sia's invasion of its neighbour. Gas countries to banliquefied gas sup. Europe will slash t prices are up 50%year-on-year,get- plies from Moscow, the region is revenue by about ting a boost in recent weeks from  $6 bn a year buying record amounts. es the looming cutoff in supply.The Russia's further LNG expan- continent is now increasingly sion faces a wall of Western sanc- exposed to market volatility as it  conduit of affordable energy for network, which once brought tions, though Us President-elect. Ching-te  becomes morereli ant on global liq- Westem allies. Siberian gas to Europe, is now a  Donald Trump may seek to alter I equal, uefied natural gas. "This termination of gas tran- shadow of its former self." Most penalties amid any potential lerly  For Russia, the loss of one of its sit is not just a supply-chain central European customers of efforts to end the war.. t  two remaining gas-pipeline routes adjustment  it's the symbolic Russia's Gazprom PJSC have man- Across Europe, the loss of some was to Europe will slash revenue by  collapse of an era," said Tatiana aged to source alternative sup- crucial Russianpipedgasthreatens en what about $6 billion a year, Bloomberg Mitrova, a researcher at the Center plies, but at a higher cost. to drive up bills forhouseholds and y of calculations show.Ukrainewill also  on Global Energy Policyat Colum- Slovakia's largest gas utility, industry as they strive to recover miss out on transit fees and give up bia University."A significant part Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel from the worst cost-of-living crisis GENCIEs ! its long-held strategic position asa of the Soviet-built gas-pipeline AS, said it will pay about 90 mil- in decades. BLoomBERg n'o inflotion. LEcB honesto L Mbad-lo ninc DiE ac.. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 0.0 Read to Leao  https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76539400

[Extracted from 07f4739a-168f-4892-b145-adf82680d48f.jpg]
Mercedes, Toyota building super-hybrids BLOOMBERG entirely when you get into tech- hybrids,which promise an almost  models into the race that are eas- January3 nology like this, which changes  emission-freeroad lifewith a gas- ier to reach, the Prius Prime the game," said Bart Herring, vice powered safety net. For the most ($32,975) and the RAV4 Plug-in the merceDes gLC 35 Oeoffers president of sales and product at part, they are no-compromise Hybrid($43,865). four zones of climate control and Mercedes Benz USA The SUVpro- its headlights project icons onto vides 50 miles of electric range, In a first, Tesla's annual China the pavement -- such as a pedes- what Herring calls the "magic trian -- to warn of coming haz- number." shipments from Shanghai dips ards. But the SUV's most impres- As electric car adoption con- sive trick is less ostentatious: It tinuesin fitsand starts, au to exec- can travel from Ossining, New utives havecreateda killer app for Tesla recorded Its first: location ofits first factory out- York, to Midtown Manhattan -- the wide swath of American dri- ever drop in annual shipments  side of the US,in 2024. roughly Don Draper's commute vers that fall between EV-curious from its Shanghai plant since This is down 3% from the in Mad Men - entirely on elec- and EV-skeptical: the super the facility started mass pro- year prior,accordingto prelim- trons, with its turbocharged, 4- hybrid. duction in 2020, a clear sign of inary data released by China's cylinder gas engine just along for Herring's magic numberis the the intensi fying local competi-  Passenger Car Association on  the ride.Then it can tum around average daily driving distance of a tion. and lukewarm global  Friday. and do it again. one-car UShousehold.In addition demand. Investors have started to "You start covering a cus- to the Mercedes, two other mod-  The automaker run by Elon cast doubt.on Musk's sales tomer's daily es on the American market Musk delivered 9,16,660 elec- growth, REUTERS driving  can handle that mileage tric vehidles from Shanghai,the entirely on electrons,  both from Jaguar Land  Rover's Range Rover vehicles with no-compro. marque. mise price tags (the super-. Lower that figureto hybrid version of the Mer- 40 miles, and another cedes GLC startsjust shyof seven models join the $60,000). Toyota, however, dub. Consider them super- has snuck two longer-range FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025  Read to lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76556064

[Extracted from 097c1588-4bf1-4ea7-a4df-77ba98375e7b.jpg]
GenAI intensifies pricing pressure on IT sector PADMINI DHRUVARAJ compels IT companies to pivot Bengaluru, January 3 KEEPING A COUNT their strategies. Instead of relying  on price hikes, firms are focusing The rapid adoptionof genera-  GenAl adoptionis  on expanding customer relation- tive AI(GenAI) is reshaping spend- reshaping IT services ships and increasing business vol- ing patterns in the iT services  spending patterns umes to sustain growth. industry, however, this technolog- "The demand side offers oppor-  Clients demand ical shift is intensifying pricing  efficiency gains be passed tunities, but the supplyside is wit- pressures for providers.  on as cost savings nessinganadjustment,with dients  Despite the growing demand expecting companies to deliver  GenAl reduces project for GenAI-related services, clients Higherper-hourpricing, more with fewer resources," timelines but intensifies are increasingly demanding that Narayanan said. pricing pressures efficiency gains be passed on to Julie Sweet, CEO,Accenture, also  Contract renewals see GenAl's premium skill set them, creating a challenging pric- pointed to the competitive land- ing environment. reduced deal values or faces client resistance scape during thecompany's recent "People are spending more expanded scopes post-earnings call with analysts. money on new technologies like "It's a very competitive market, GenAI, but we nowhave to do more which is what we've been saying for the same amount" said Venka- due to efficiencies from genera- Despite the growing demand values are becoming margin-dilu- every quarter, and we did see lower traman Narayanan, managing tiveAI,'he said. tive, Jain said. This trend is partic- for GenAI-related services, pricing across the business, which director and CFO, Happiest Minds. Further, while GenAI com- ularly evident during contract has been pretty consistent. Clients clients are increasingly  Narayanan explained that as mands a premium as a skill set, renewals, where clients push for haveconstrained spending,partic- demanding that efficiency GenAI tools, such as copilot, dients are resistant to higher expanded scopes at the same pric- ularly on small deals," she said. enhance coding efficiency and  prices, seeing the same resources  gains be passed on to them  ing orreduced deal values. Sweet further highlighted how reduce training time. Clients are capable of delivering more, he "You can have the best pricing Accenture isaddressingthese chal- leveraging these advancements to added. but still make low margins. Clients lenges by blending GenAI capabili- demand greater value for their Pareekh Jain, CEO, Pareekh Con-  overall productivity gains to trans- expect higher savings now, espe- ties with initiatives to modernise. investments. sulting, said,"Clients are asking IT  lateinto significant cost savings,he cially with GenAI. On renewals, "We have the talent, the full-stack "For example, if 20 people companies to pass on whatever added. they are coming with either the engineers, the GenAI, and a plat- were previously required for a efficiency benefits they're getting "For instance, work that previ- same scope at reduced values or form called GenWizard. Clients are project lasting a year, the expec- fromGenAl." while clientsarewill- ously took 100 hours might now increased scope at the same price," coming to us not to take off old tation now is that the same pro-  ing to pay more for GenAI resources take 70 hours. Per-hour pricing Jain added. applications but to modernise  ject can be delivered by 18 people  on a per-hour basis, they expect may be increasing, but overall deal  This increasingpricingpressure while taking costs down."  financialexp.epapr.in>OOOO c0000  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 Read to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76555669

[Extracted from 0e8716f5-03a9-4a7f-aca9-e0941bb48442.jpg]
'Bangladesh crisis offers. new opportunities for Indian textile clusters' RAVI DUTTA MISHRA India is well- positioned to cap- New Delhi, January 5 italise on these redirected investments. We are also in Amid the ongoing eco- talks with agencies and con. nomic and political tensions in sulting firms to engage them Bangladesh, Indian exporting inimproving productivityand firms, particularly in the efficiencyin the operations of Tiru pur clusters, are receiving garment manufacturing com- higher enquiries from several panies, which can unlock the global apparel brands, includ- underutilised  production ing Primark, Tesco, Decathlon, capacity in the apparel sector," Duns,J CPenney, GAP, Next,and Thakur said. Walmart, with order conver- On PLI 2.0: sion expected for shipment by To capture market share early 2025, Mithileshwar and seize the opportunities Thakur, Secretary General of arising from the reorientation the Apparel Export Promotion of supply chains due to Council(AEPC)said. Bangladesh's crisis and the Dueto a record surge in the China+1 factor,India must act US dollar's value, Bangladesh Mithileshwar Thakur swiftly to enhance its produc- has faced a sharp depletion in tion capacity, shorten produc- its foreign exchange reserves, access, and its Least Developed  tion cydle times, and improve which fell below $40 billion for Country (LDC) status. How-  speed to market, in additionto the first time in two years in ever,several prominent brands  focusing on workforce skilling July last year. With foreign have decided not to further and developing a robust com- exchange reserves sufficient to increase their exposure to pliance architecture, Thakur cover only four to five months Bangladesh for sourcing, said. "Accordingly, the PL12.0 of imports, Bangladesh has Thakur added. Notably, scheme for all types of gar. faced challenges in importing  Bangladesh enjoysa 10-15 per ments, irrespective of fibre, cotton and fabric,which it tra- cent cost advantage over India, with a reduced investment ditionally sources from India. as its apparel products benefit threshold, should be intro. This comes amid tightening from duty-free access in the  duced on an urgentbasis.This economic conditions in the European Union, the UK, and scheme would foster invest- neighbouring country. Canada due to its LDC status.  ment and scale up production *This crisisalsopresents an India can only bridge the capacity exponentially. For opportunity for additiona! duty disadvantage after it micro-industries, the employment generation.Cap- signs a free trade agreement Amended Technology Upgra- turing just io per cent of with the EU and the UK. Cur-  dation Funds Scheme (ATUFS) Bangladesh's global apparel rently, several Indian manu- should be revived for technol- exports could directly create facturers have set up factories  ogyupgradation,as PL12.Owill 5,00,000 jobs and indirectly in Bangladesh due to India's not cover micro-industries generate an additional 1 mil- labour laws, concerns about within its scope'he said. lion jobs in the Indian apparel unions, and thecost disadvan- Thakur stated that due to sector. To seize the opportunity tage. Thakur further said that  the unavailability of quality presented by this develop- global investments are driven Man-Made Fibre (MMF) fabric ment, India needs to urgently by the political stability index, from indigenous sources, gar- address issuesrelated to capac-  and the continued instability  ment exporters are often ity augmentation and skill  in Bangladesh presents a sig- dependent on fabric nomi- development," Thakur said.  nificant opportunity for India nated by foreign buyers. He Most European brands sourc- to attract investments that added that the "existing ing from Bangladesh, particu- might otherwise flowto neigh- scheme of special advance larly in the cost-sensitive seg- bouring competing countries. authorisation" for fabric ment, are facing challenges in such as Vietnam, Cambodia,  import is "not suitable for gar- immediately shiftingorders to and Indonesia."However,with ment exporters" due to ever- altemativedestinations,due to a strong focus on improving changing market dynamics, the distinct cost advantages.  and upgrading infrastructure, designs, patterns, shapes,sizes, offered by the country, such as capacity expansion, technol- geography-specific consump- low wage rates, duty-free  ogy infusion, and compliance, tionnorms. FINANCIAL EXPRESS  Mon, 06 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/7656426 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 0fd2c2fe-925b-4b05-bef1-693a6021b016.jpg]
TECH CHARGE OF YOUR WELLNESS  BOOm TImE FOR  WEARABLES $1.8 trn Size ofthe global consumer' Wellness is today the biggest selling vellness market point of consumer technology, and 34% brands are in a race to up the  wellness quotient of their products Percentage growth of the Indian wearable market in 2023, recording 134.2 million units 74% Percentage growth of smartwatch shipments in Indiain. 2023, recording 53.2 million units. India The growing investment in wellness tech reflects World's largest smartwatch market an increasing recognition: Of the benefits of : personalised, data-driven  solutions for enhancing health outcomes  of consumers  vishal gondal, have purchased a FOUNDER & CEO, GOQII  fitness wearable  at some point in time 1/3 ofwearable users used their devices  more oftenin  2024 than With more people they did the embracing a healthy  previous year  lifestyle and proactive health management, 75% %  the demand for wellness ofconsumers indicated devices and wearables  an openness to using a  is only growing vearable in the future - Amit khatri, Source: McKinsey & Company CO-FOUNDER, NOISE Future ofWellness survey 2024 get wamings to take necessary action pre.  mpanyXiaomi's wearable tech achieved remarkable growth, with revenue in TWS emptively is a game changer for people liv- ingwith diabetes. (true wireless terco) more than doubling datato beseenby the patient on the phone treating physician as well as a familymem- beror caregiver.Digital health monitoring icated to seamlesslyintegratingwellness- emang ferent food and lifestyle choices on one's Sgar movement sys Dr Mano Chawa,  ogy designed to enhance their daily lives.*  Similarly, Bose-backed' gadget and pital& MRC, Khar,Mumbai. 'Our focus on combiningcutting-edge. wearables brand Noise posted an operat- ing revenue of 1,430.8 crore in FY24, ensures that our products are tailored to  Life coach in an app meetour customers'evolving needs Inno- The smart tech era started in the early vation remains at the heart of what we do, RoC filings."Our NoisecFit App connects 2000s when health trackers became more sophisticated--and morewearable,unlike age one anotherin theirwellnessjoumeys.  the late 1990s when thermometers and monitoring, making  comprehensive With more people mbraingahealthy health and wellness tracking accessible to lifestyle and proactive health manage- ventive tracking devices. Over the years, ment, the demand for such devices is only brands such as Finnish smartwatch-maker CEO ofboAt. Suunto,Califomia-based Pebble and Apple, Apart from health insights apps track. Noise,which holds thelargest25.7%mar- followed by Garmin, Samsung and Goog ing food habits, weight management and. ket share in India'ssmartwatch sector.  have gained popularity in the wearables and healthtech mar ket. ularity. For instance, Truthin, a B2C  are what companies are bettingon in abig These smart solutions have become a way. Recently,consumerelectronics brand one-stop shop for health and wellness  for m,provides in-depthi needs offeringarangeofservices.Recently, on product food labels (analyses smart wearables and health technolo nutrient profiles, additives, process- ing levels, individual health infoma  over-the-counter medication regime and thelatest versionofthis app,thecompany tion and ingredients) to assign a health It has recently launched the Fittr Hart adverse reactionsfrom drug-to-drug inter - introduces a new feature called Exertion score and personalised insights."We are smart ring for real-time insights intovital  actionsandother safetyguidance.The fea- Score, which customises workout plans ommitted to make label transparencythe metrics like heart rate, sleep quality, and ture helps in tracking medication adher- and fitness recommendations based on  nom which is now seeing widespread ence consistenc hypertension, the users'levelofexhaustion,recovery,and  health solutions grow--backed by data diabetes, PCOs, PCOD and other chronic readiness. It helps monitor several key Putrevu, cofounder & CEO of NatFirst,the Showing a significant rise in health-con- diseases that require timely doses.  parent firm of Tru thIn, which has over scious behaviours--we're focused on cycle amongother metrics. attracting consu! umers through tailored Similarly, boAt's recent launches, like 1.5 million downloads by the fiscal year- belicve users will be able to manage their the Wave Sigma 3, deliver advanced end.Serving85,000 monthly active users making fitness accessible and engaging for health i sights. The brand has experi. since it launched in July 2023, the appis everyone," says Jitendra Chouksey, found. ence, and ultimately mair ain better growing at an average rate of 10-15% health said Kyungyun Roo, MD,Samsung enced steady growth in market share, and CEO, Fittr, who has seen over 16% especially in the smartwatch category, growth in revenue betweenApril and Octo- Research Institute,Noida. Similarly, personalised fitness and e yyr. Similarly, fitness brand Cult (formerly advanced healthcare features and gami- known as Cult.fit) launched its smart fied fitness challenges,all at accessible from internationally certified coaches.  On a growth curve weighingscales thatmeasure over 50para- price points, empoweringcustomers with Founded in 2016, it has over 6 million acc essible,high-qualitywellness technol- downloads and 350,000transformations. Last year, Chinese consumer electronics age, muscle mass,hydrationlevels and obe Sun, 05 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS

[Extracted from 14f7bfdc-035f-433f-8813-47cbb4b1788b.jpg]
EYE LONGER DURATION ON RATE CUT HOPES Banks cut down on short-term bonds ANUPREKSHAJAINE Mumbai, January 1 MARKET MOVE AmID TightLiquIdITy condi- Market participants tions in the banking system, B expect rates ofT-bills, banks have cut down on their short-term bonds investmentsin short-term gov- toremain sticky ernment bonds, according to dealers.At the same time, banks  A large section of market are shiftingtowards buildingup is anticipating a rate cut. :: positions in thelongerduration by RBI in February N papers due to rising bets on the Reserve Bank ofIndia(RBI) cut- Despite cut in the cash. D ting rates in February.. Market participants expect rates ofT-bills and short-term 2lakhcrore S. bonds to remain sticky unless liquidityconditionsease. Alarge sectionofthe market is anticipatingacut in the policy arehoveringaround6.90%lev- rate by the central bank in Feb- els,consequentlyT-bill rates are out the liquidityin the system. ruary. Generally, when the rate high. Initially, there was a Meanwhile, long-term cut happens,long-term bonds  thought that short-term yields  bonds are not vulnerable to the. tend to perform better than would fall faster than long-term liquidityconditionsof the bank- shorter duration papers because butdueto funding crunch,mak-  ing system,ratherthey are more investors lock in a higher inter- ing money on short-terms  susceptible to anychange in the estrate foralongperiodoftime. papers is difficult," said a trader rate cutcydle. NewRBI govemor  For the ultra long-duration ata private bank. Sanjay Malhotra is considered papers with a maturityof and Despite the cut in the cash  positive for the market and per- above 30 years have seen firm reserve ratio (CRR),theliquidity ceived to be dovish in his demand from insurance com-  deficit in the banking system. approach, thereby boosting panies, pension funds, provi- crossed 2 lakh crore.Interven- investors expectations of a dent funds, and even some. tion in the foreign exchange domestic rate cut. mutual funds as well. Mutual  market is a key reason for tight "Banks'investment strategy funds, usually, don't prefer to liquidity as the central bank is.  forlong-term bonds is impacted lock in moneyin ultra long dura-  said to selling dollars tostem the by rate cut expectations.Aslong tion papers. However, with the depreciation of the rupee. as the expectations are intact, increasingchances of a domes- Looking ahead, the struc-  duration will going to perform tic rate cut, fund houses have tural liquidity is expected to well. When the liquidity is tight also taken longpositions inultra remain under pressure as the.  and rate cutbets are stillon, Iwill longbonds,said thedealers.  rupee will continue to face the continuewithdurationpapers,"' "Duration papers are pre- heat of an elevated dollar.This. said VRC Reddy, deputy GM- ferred because ovemight rates  mayprompt RBIto intervenein treasury, at KarurVysya Bank. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 0.0 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/7655355! read to Lead

[Extracted from 153b9a74-3ae6-4767-989c-f94750a37537.jpg]
Weakening rupee will benefit export-oriented firms: Mobius FE BUREAU Mobius also expects the Indian Mumbai, Janvary 3. markets and domestic industries to HARK benefit from the Trump administra- WHILE A WEAKENING rupee is a tion more than any other country, as HOBUS! dampener for foreign investment CHARMAL Indiais thenaturalchoice afterChina  inflows into India, export-oriented for manufacturing. He also expect MOBILS companies could benefit from the MEMERGING Prime Minister Narendra Modi's. fall in the local currency, as they reforms to result in a good partner- RND become more competitive against ship with the US.. China, Mark Mobius, chairman of Whereelsecan "Where else caninvestors go over-  Mobius Emerging Opportunities investors go overseas? seas? India comes up all the time Fund, said on Friday. India comesupall because of the incredible growth of "I would look at export-oriented the country, the reforms thataretak- theumebecauseof companies to begin with because of ing place under the current govern- the currency situation, and also theincrediblegrowth ment, and because there is so much  because India is gradually becoming ofthecountry value in the market,' Mobius said. more competitive against the Chi- "My personal desire is to be 50% nese exporters,' Mobius told a busi- investedin India"he said. ness newschannel. theweakening rupee,he said."We are Mobius added that many of the Infosys, for exanple, which  on the cusp of more exports coming stocks in India that have a US dol- exports a lot of software, is going to out of India,not only in the software lar income component will con-  become more competitive because of area but alsoin manufacturing.' tinue to do good.. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 0.0 read to Leao https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76555672

[Extracted from 156f1689-d2b2-4d3e-9de2-d1655ab4d0bf.jpg]
Panel to suggest road map for Producer Price Index  MUKESH JAGOTA  Till the PPI stabilises,both WPI mayinclude some taxes and trans- to PPI from WPI was expressed in  New Deihi, January 2 and PPI will run concurrently.Al! SHIFT TO A BETTER SYSTEM portation costs. PPI also removes  2003 itwasonly in 2014 that awork- major economies like the' US, multiple counting bias inherent in  ing groupwas set up to determine The GOvernment On Thursday China, Japan, Germany and France  In 2014, aworking group was  The new  the methodology and data require-  announced the formation of apanel  use PPI to measure the average set upto determine the process  panel will have costs on products imposed by taxes  ments to move ahead. The report of of experts to revise the base year of changes in prices received by  for a move from WPI to PPI, but 18 members  andtransportation makes it a more the groupcamein 2017 butno deci- Wholesale Price Index (wPI) and domestic producers for their out-  no decision was taken on its  It has been accurate gaugeofprice movements.  sion was taken onit. suggest a road map for switching put. Globally PPI tracks prices of report, submitted in 2017 Weight of an item in wPI is In 2019, the government had asked to over to Producer Price Index (PPI). both goods and services. Another panelwas set up in based on net traded value whereas constituted aworking group forrevi- submit its The working group for revision The panel announced on Thurs-  2019 for revision of wPl base report within in PPI weights are retrieved from sion of the current series of wPI that of base year ofWPIto 2022-23 from  day will have economists from the supply use tables. PPI also includes  has 2011-12 as its base year.The task  year and to recommend a road 18  2011-12 andto decide on computa- govemment, rating agencies, asset  services while wPI onlyhas goods. beforethe groupwas to suggest anew  map for moving to PPI from WPI months tional methodology to be adopted management companies and The methodology for compila- for WPI and PPI will be headed by  banks,and representatives from the  tion of PPI has been approved by the  Ramesh Chand, member, Niti Aayog  tions and deletions of commodities  Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand govemment and the Reserve Bank. technicaladvisory committee onsta- in the basket of goods whose prices andwill have17 othermembers.The The panel will also suggest the tistics of pricesand costof living.The  are tracked to draw the index. The working group has been asked to commodity basket of wPi and PP1 gest changes for improvement. The way that it measures the average panel will suggest further improve-  working group was alsoempowered submit its final report to the eco- for the new base 2022-23 in the working group will also decide on  change in prices received by pro-  ment in compilation and presenta- to recommend a road map for mov-  nomic adviser at the Departmentfor light of structural changes in the  the computational methodology to ducers and excludes indirect taxes.  tion.The PPI has been discussed for  ing to PPI from WPI.After many dis-  Promotion of Industry and Internal economy.It will reviewthe existing be adopted for WPI and PPI. WPI captures the price changes at  the past 20 years when its idea was  cussions,anotherworking group was Trade (DPlIT)within 18 months. system of price collection and sug- PPI is different from WPI in the  the point of bulk transactions and firstmooted While the need to move announced on Thursday.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 00 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76548498

[Extracted from 16d19c83-04ec-4ac5-b2bf-1ff9d48b2574.jpg]
DigiLocker glitch sparks backup demand JATIn GROVER CLOUD STORAGE ment company, said, "While it New Delhi, January 3 was not a complete shutdown,  DigiLocker outage  DigiLocker there was a~50% drop in the digilocker outage, disrupted fintech restored after two-  onboarding of users due to the which disrupted e-KYC KYC processes day service outage DigiLockerissue" processes forfintech firms,bro- Accordingto Saxena, outages Experts call for  DigiLocker has kers, and other businesses, has  are commonin the technology backup systems in DPI 434.53 mn users, 1ed to calls from companies and. world but it is really important tech experts to improve the UPI;Aadhaar. 9.41 bn documents  NIC data centre forthegovemmenttohavemore resilience ofdigital public infra- DigiLocker such platforms in place so that power failure Omnicard saw 50% structure (DPI) to avoid similar. Vital for digital DigiLocker is not overloaded. caused disruption dip in user onboarding issues in the future. services Notably, DPI stacks such as UPI, They said the government DigiLocker,andAadhaar,among should consider implementa- others,have so farbeen effective tion of redundancy systems, by  platform for storage, sharing "We got thousands of sup.  in bringing digital services to the  developing abackup, or failover and verification of documents, port tickets because of delayed masses in a cost-effective and system for Digilocker that and certificates. The outage KYC approvals. DigiLocker has timelymanner." Initiatives such ensures that businesses can also affected many govern- restored its services as of  as DigiLocker have shown the  continue functioning even in ment websites, leading to a now,"said Neeraj Khandelwal, fundamental impact that DPI case of technical failures. slow or no response. Officials co-founder of CoinDCX. use cases can have on efficien- A power outage at the data saidthedatacentre powerout- As of December 30, 2024, cies in our digital economy. centre of the government's age has been restored. DigiLocker has 434.53 million However, such DPI initiatives National Informatics Centre The issue, however, slowed registered usersand has issued  need to have exceptional cyber. (NIC) on December 31 in Delhi. down user onboardingfor com- 9.41 billiondocuments. resilience, security and redun- led to disruptions at the Dig- panies who are required to do Abhishek Saxena, cO- dancies in place" said Dhruv iLocker for the next two days.  digital KYC before signing up founder and MD ofOmnicard,a Garg,partner at Indian Gover- DigiLocker is a doud-based. users toverifytheiridentity. corporate expense manage- nanceand Policy Project. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76555793  read to Lead

[Extracted from 1cd83eea-c0c0-4a40-acad-673fdbe4aa19.jpg]
Iran minister in Delhi for talks to boost ties, trade ShUBhAJIT rOY government source said, New Delhi, January 2 adding that theworld has also changed since the first Trump Days before  donald term.Iran is now"cooperating Trump returns to the Oval with Saudi Arabia", and has Office, MajidTakht-Ravanchi, developed closer ties with Iran's deputy foreign minis- both Russia and China.  ter,has reached New Delhi for The regional situation is talks Friday with external also going to be discussed affairs minister S Jaishankar with the Indian govemment. and foreign secretaryVikram The Iranian source expressed Misri. Iran is looking at "concern" over the turn of increasingbilateral trade with events in Gaza, Lebanon India, including via the and Syria. Chabaharport. Tehran has expressed con- From tourism to agricul- MajidTakht-Ravanchi, Iran cern over the security situa- ture, Tehran wants to boost deputy foreign minister tion in Syria where President ties with Delhi and bilateral Bashar-alAssad was ousted by. talks will take place before the rebels. "Those who are in  Trump administration takes trade with India is "very charge in Syria don't have a charge on January 20. important'. Tehran hopes to  good track record,'the source Sources said Iran would diversify to other areas, said, referring to rebel groups also like to get a sense from including agriculture and tracingtheir roots toAl Qaeda Indian officials on dealing petrochemical products and Isis."Whether they have with sanctions - India has through the Chabahar port. changed or not, wewill haveto stopped buying oil from Iran Iran is also looking at an see,"' the source said. due tothe threat of sanctions, increase in Indian tourist Tehran feels that terrorism but has continued to buy oil travel to Iran, and wants to  can flourish again and can be from Russia despite sanc- facilitate that.While it's a peo- felt intheregion,andwantsto tions. ple-to-people exchange, it discuss these issues with offi- A top Iranian govemment increases economic activity. cials in Delhi."It is a serious source said while the"circum- Tehranalsowants anincrease issue, and we are living in a stances"of Russiaand Iran are in the number of Iranians. very uncertain neighbour- "different", these questions travelling to India. hood," the source said. merit discussions. Tehran, which is also Iran is also building ties "We don't want to deal preparing for the Trump 2.0  with Russia,and officials said with the past, but want to look administration, believes that they are going to sign a into the future,' the source Washington's  "maximum major partnership pact with said. pressure" campaign against Russia at the end of January. For Tehran, which has suf- Iran has"failed'. Tehran also views China as a fered from the economic "While it has caused hard. "very important" partner sanctions imposed during ship to the people of Iran,the which has"economic power" I Trump's first term, increasing  policy has failed, the Iranian spread across the world. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/7654945t  Read to Lead (

[Extracted from 1d212958-0179-4b1f-937d-5fd0bf67d245.jpg]
Acvertona Sonalika: The Impossible Indian Success Story  traclors a month today. We are always dose to our customers . : farme's needs and keep refining our strategies to deliver. . questions of survival. Turnover US $1.1 bn However.'on each  and ensure that we understand their growing needs and  supreme customer satisfaction.. A Debt-Free Approach 'occasion we emerged  quickly improve our products to meet the requirement. .Q. What is the philosophy, of Sonalika towards its.  stonger by sticking to our since inception During the inital years our requests to our suppliers'for. : stakeholders? principle' of remaining  modifications in:engines and other aggregates were not debt-free. This has  Sonalika believes that everyone who is associated with us is a. 3'core philosophies-  helped us.in thinking  part of One Big family and everyone is important. One case in. best products & services,  when we decided to build our own capabilities to make tractor  differently and doing  pointis the COviD-19 pandemic thattested industries globally. prioritizing stakeholders' 'components in-house, be it engines, transmissions, sheet. things differently that has. : and Sonalika was no exception. However, Sonalika'stood as a. & an ethcal approach metal, gear box and so.on to ensure that the necessary  made us self-reliant. We Shining example of resiience and care for its partners. We  modifications are done quickly and needs of our customers are with no shortcuts. started with no fulfited. Eventually, the demand for. our heavy-duty tractors prioritized employees by paying their salares in advance. manufacturing plant.or during uncertain times and did not lay-off a single worker.  kept increasing exponentially and became so high that we R&D, but a firm belief that what wo were doing is right as! ;Every suppler was paid-off on time and even in advance so  decided to expand our manufacturing prowess which today is. frmly believe that Koshish karne walon ki kabhi haar nahl hot'.  that they too could take care of their employees and business .the World's No.1' fully integrated traclor plant in Hoshiarpur.  This approach has kept us focused in design and develop our ' needs. Sonalika takes pride in its family-oriented culture. This. state-of-the-art manufacturing plant rous out 1 traclor  own farm technologies to offer varied solutions for each : which has helped us to navigate challenging times with unity  every 2 minutes, backed by robotic operations and automated . 'customer segment. and strength.  production lines which are flexible to make different engines. The success of our customers has led the company to record  and transmission on the same assembly line. Til date, the Sh. L. D/MITTAL's Our decisions and actions are guided by the core values of numerous milestones in the joumey so far that cannot be plant remains unmatched in it capacities. Today, we develop.  Integrity, empathy and accountabllity. These shared values ChairmanSonalika Group_. expressed in words. We take pride in being the No. 1 tractor over 2,000 models calering to specific needs of domestic and.  uphold ethical standards, fostering trust and credibility for our. export brand from India, operating under a proud Indian name,  export markets. stakeholders, creating: an all-inclusive environment of India is blessed with visionaries whose relentess efforts  transparency and commitmen. have left an indelible mark and touched the heights of . The philosophy has gone a long way in building a performance SONALIKA success. In a candid conversation, the.vislonary tractor.  led work culture that believes in teamwork and its only purpose. titan, Sh. L. D. Mittal, Chalrman of Sonalika. Tractors, is to improve every day. We have examples of employees who. shares how his dream of empowering the farming  started with us and are head of departments now, dealers who. REcOGNIZED AMoNGST  community became the.cornerstone of this unbelievable started as small businessmen and have turned into business: INDIA'S LARGEST Indian success story.. tycoons and suppliers who have grown big with us. The Sonalika family is built on trust and that converts into loyalty. Q. Sonalika's growth story is unbelievable. What is the 500 COMPANIes and dedication towards our business. Numbers will keep success mantra behindthis?  growing, what is more important for us is our belief in our  Sonalika was born in a small non-industrial town of Hoshiarpur  people. We are proud of the family of over 8,000 employees -FORTUNE 500 INDIA 2024  in Punjab and has risen to be in the list of Fortune 500 India and over 20,000 vendors & dealers..  2024 Largest Companies with an overall tumover of estimated Sonalika is committed to be'a trustworthy partner of over 17. US $1.18n. This is beyond imagination, yet true. What brought Jakh farmers globally. It not only provides best in class tractors. us here is a strong belef of providing global technologles to our but aiso believes in transparency'in its dealings with the. farmers to ease their work and enhance farm productivity. farmers. It is the only company that displays its tractor prices. irrespective of the scale of operations. Since inception the on its websile unlike many other traclor companles. The. foundation of Sonatika is built on 3 philosophies - Offer company has also ventured into NBFC services to assist. best product and services to our customers, prioritise  farmers with financing options. Stakeholder interest and do business with highost standards ofethics and take no shortcuts for excellence. Intenotiondl Tractor Umlted Q. What is your message to aspiring entrepreneurs? In the eary days when we started manufacturing threshers, we "Ae jazba-e-dil agar main chahun har cheez muqammll ho were clear that we had to give the best products, often making  jaaye, manzil ke liye do kadam chalun aur samne manzil aa rather than being a contract manufacturer to an outside brand. .We continue to work dosely with our vendors and handhold cost a secondary consideration. The approach helped us to Jaaye'- these words by Mirza Ghasb inspire me work hard Our exports market share is nearly double of the next them in setting up their manufacturing base in Hoshiarpur. This. win the confidence of the farmers and understand their needs  every day and yet betieve that there is no shortcut to success. competitor with presence over 150+ countries. In India- the has helped us to create a complete business ecosystem intimately. We were overwhelmed with their response and they. world's biggest tractor market, we are the 3rd largest tractor  around our factory. To further enhance our technical expertise Focus on hard work and execution over mere ideas and requested us to make superior quality tractors as well. This. brand that strives for excellence in .every aspect of the and offer the best solutions to, customers, we tled up with. presentaton skills. True success lies in persistence and action encouraged us to enter the tractors business in1995. There  agriculture sector and consistentty surpasses industry growth,  global companies such as Renault & Yanmar. rather than waiting for extemal validation or funding.. Take.  has been no looking back ever since with Sonalika winning the a statementof trustthat customers have in us.:  ownership of your future!  hearts of milfons of farmers across the country and g!obally I feel delighted to see happy faces of the farming community  and it keeps me inspired to do everything that can to simphly  In condusion, we believe that farmers' prosperity is integral. with its customer-centric'approach to provide high quality Q. How did you make sure to deliver the best solutions to.  their lives and support and make their fife better. Delivening top 'to the growth of not just the tractor industry but also the. tractors, backed by a reliable service and spares support. the customers and stay true to your philosophy?  economy as a whole. Sonalika remains committed toits vision.  quality products and services that'consistently exceed We made this tougher by imposing our own self-discipline in We have continued to strengthen our belief to deliver the best  customer expectations has been our No. 1 prionty. We stand  of empowering farmers and achieving sustainable growth. ! business principles and conviction'to grow with our self- in everything that we do irrespective to the scale of business: .committed to Innovate continuously and address every  believo my journey will be fulflling when 'Kisan Ka beta bh! resources. The ride was not easy and, often, there were be it the initial volume of 100 ractors a month to nearly 15,000 Kisan banna chahega.' FINAnCIaL EXpRESS Wed, 08 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76583889 ()

[Extracted from 1d93bc_828126_6.jpg]
[ BREAKING THE GLASS CEILING } SOARING AMBITION Like father, like daughter: IAF recruit to train. as pilot at airbase once commanded by her dad. commissioned as a flying officer Rahul Singh. in the IAF Her father Air Com- Jetters@hindustantimes.com  modore Ran Singh holds a key NEW DELHI: The daughter of one post in the Air Headquarters in of the country's top fighter pilots Delhi. She was among the-204 has joined the Indian Air Force's. cadets (including five women fighter stream, :and will soon assigned to' the fighter stream) head for further training at a.  who graduated from the elite Air premier airbase in the eastern Force Academy (AFA), Dundi: sector that was earlier com-.  gal, Hyderabad, on December 14 manded by her father, a serving. after the successful culmination air commodore- a rare occur- of' their pre-commissioning rence in the air force that opened. training in the flying and ground the fighter stream to women. duty branches.of the IAF, the only eight years ago, officials world's fourth largest air force. Flying Officer Muskaan Singh (centre) with her father Air.. aware of the matter'said on There have been 'several Commodore Ran Singh and mother Komal Singh at the Air Force Wednesday. instances of fathers:and sons Academy, Hyderabad Muskaan Singh, 24; has been HT PHOTO continuedon>6.

[Extracted from 20498863-605e-4fce-a221-3968d55e6849.jpg]
Many hits, a few misses. DPDP Rules signal MeitY's balanced approach, but some concerns still need to be addressed  HE GOVERNMENT'S APPROACH towards implementing the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Act broadly reflects a  pragmatic and balanced strategy,consideringthe complexities oftransitioningindustriestoa newlegal framework Oneofthe most commendable steps isthe 45-daywindow provided for public con- sultation. This time frame,coupled with the decision to release the draft rulesafter the ChristmasandNewYear holidays,allowskeystakeholders, particularly global technology firms often operating with reduced capac- ingfullyin the feedback process.. The government's nuanced stanceon data localisation is anothersen- sible measure. Rather than imposing blanket restrictions,agovernment-  appointed committee will evaluate localisation requirements on a sec- toral basis, ensuring that critical personal data remains within the country'sbordersonlywhen absolutely necessary.This selectiveapproach balances the need for safeguarding sensitive information with the oper- ational realities of global businesses. For example, if the health ministry is of theview that health record of citizensshould not goout of the coun- try, the suggestionwillbe reviewed through consultationsbefore imple- mentation, mitigating the risk of disruptions to cross-border data flows.  Equallyprudentis the Act's provision for parentalconsentin processing children's data. By requiring data fiduciaries to verify parental consent for minors under 18 through digital tokens, the government addresses the vul- nerabilities children face in the digital world. This model strikes a balance between safeguarding children's privacyand allowingaccess to digital plat- forms. It is a more practical alternative to Australia's restrictive approach, where children up to a certain age are barred from accessing social media.  The DPDP Act also incorporates mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability. Provisions forvoluntary disclosure of data breaches incen- data protection ecosystem. Simultaneously,significant penalties for non- compliance underscore the seriousness of safeguardingpersonal data.Addi- businesses to complywith the Act re flects the government's commitment toensuringa smooth shift to the new framework. Electronics and information technology (rT) minister Ashwini Vaish- naw has clarified in the past that the DPDPAct adheres to the principles established by the Puttaswamy judgment, which upholds the balance between privacy and transparency. Existing laws mandating disclosure of public servants'information will remain unaffected, addressing fears of diminished accountability. It's a fact that by fostering collaboration with stakeholders, prioritising sectoral needs, and adopting practical measures like parental consent mechanisms,the ministry of electronics and IT (Meity) has taken a significant step toward ensuring robust data protectionwhile minimising disruptions to industry.  But there is a flip side as well. Retention of broad discretionary powers under the guidelines leads to policy unpredictability, leaving too much room for the government to act on acase-by-case basis.This could hamper compliance efforts,asstakeholders strugglewith unclearrulesand incon- sistent enforcement. The ambiguity and potential legal challenges may benefit lawfirms, while businesses and stakeholders face heightened com- pliance costs and regulatory unpredictability.Also,the entire process can be time-consuming, while dataprotection has become an urgent need for the citizens. Overall, such debates are inevitableand healthy, and the gov- ernment would dowell to fine-tune the new rules further after extensive discussions with stakeholders.Afterall, a lot isat stake as the newrules will bringin a massive change in howIndia viewsand uses the internet. FINANCIAL EXPRESS  Mon, 06 January 2025 https://epaper:financialexpress.

[Extracted from 250f116b-0c66-4c18-8ed5-f433ef1fdd7d.jpg]
health, and three to four halves are al diets during the sufficient. Pistachios help in weight  management andoffer antioxidants, and ffects. Here's why 20 to 30 kernels are recommended. Cashews,full of zinc,boost the immunity system; four to five of them daily are enough. Raisins help digestion and NUTRITION FACTS are sufficient. Healthy eating ALMOnDS Excellent If you roast almonds, it enhances the source of vitamin E absorption and improves vitamins, digestion. Pecans, when roasted, bring minerals  out the natural oils, making antioxi- such as. dants more bioavailable. Hazelnuts,if vitamin roasted, make vitamin E and copper E, vitaminCO absorption enhanced. B2, magnesium, phosphorus, When you soak cashews, it reduces the fatty acids and makes the magne-  potassium, along with fibre. sium, minerals and copper more Rich in healthy fats  absorbable. "They can also be taken raw and antioxidants  or roasted for energy and snacking but WALNUTS avoidthe fryingand addition of moresalt as they could lead to.reduced health Great source benefits, says Dr Sharma of Marengo  of alpha- hospital, Gurugram.  linolenic Pistachios,when soaked, becomesoft acid (ALA); and areeasily digestible.Walnutsmaybe  significantly taken raw to obtain the benefits of high in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids. Roasted lightly,pis- tachios can also be flavoured withoutlos- CAshews ing significant nutrients."Also make sure Rich in protein, to storethesedryfruits in such awaythat their nutritional value is preserved.You  healthy fats, including  can consume dry fruits with warm liq- mono-unsaturated  uids like tea and milk to enhance diges- & poly-unsaturated fats, & antioxidants tion," says Dr Grover of Max,Vaishali. Dry fruits and nuts are very easy to such as polyphenols* include in your winter diet to become PisTachiOs healthy. Soaked almonds and raisins can help jump-start your day for some Especially rich in energy.Addchopped walnuts,pistachios, .antioxidants, or cashews in oatmeal, porridge, or lutein and yoghurt.These nuts can be incorporated zeaxanthin, high in homemade energy bars,laddus, or gra- in fibre  nolafor your snacking.Mix dry fruits,like  dates and figs, with warm milk, perfect RAISINS for a healthy drink to take to bed.  Add chopped nuts over salads or soups Contain  helpful soluble forcrunch. fibres, good source Also, the timingof havingdryfruits is  of potassium, important. "They can be consumed  antioxidants; also morning or as a mid-morning snack. contain valuable nutrients, Avoid ingesting them late at night since such as vitamin C, selenium, they may disturb digestion' says Dr and zinc Gupta of Fortis hospital. Meanwhile, nut allergy is one of the Dates most prevalent food allergies in both High in fibre, antioxidants;' children and adults, with some experi- good source'of potassium, encing severe,life-threatening responses magnesium, iron, when exposed to nuts, says Dr Gupta of Fortis. Thesymptoms of a nutallergycan vitamin B6 range from minor to severe. For some,  even tiny quantities of nuts can be fatal. educate yourself, take care to minimise exposu re,and know what to do if you get symptoms. Look for alternative foods that people with tree nut allergies can salted nuts are used. Excessive intake of eat, such as pine nuts. Soaking dried nuts and dry fruits like raisins and dates  fruitsovernightmight make themsofter can also elevateblood sugar levels.Hence, and more digestible," adds Dr Gupta of it is advised to eat in moderation to avoid Fortis hospital. too much calories and fat. The safe options, says Dr Grover of Here's what Neeti Sharma, head, Max, Vaishali,are dry fruits like almonds, dietetics and nutritionist, MarengoAsia dates, prunes and raisins as they do not Hospital in Gurugram, suggests: cause such allergic reactions. He further "Almonds, walnuts, pistachios, cashews, advises to be careful while selecting the and raisins arehealthy nuts with diverse nuts and dry fruits. "Try almonds, health benefits if eaten in moderation. cashews, and pistachios.Startwith smal! Almonds are rich in vitamin E and  portions andyou mayincreasethe quan- magnesium, so it helps for healthy skin  tity of the portion after monitoringyour and reduces stress. Six to eight almonds  body reactions.Avoid keeping dry fruits  daily are ideal."  in a single box, try to keep them individ-  Similarly, walnuts contain Omega-3 ually so that you can prevent any acci- fatty acids that aid in brain and heart dental exposure,"he adds.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025 6 https://epaper.financialexpress.com,?

[Extracted from 299d81e6-cf2b-4ae7-b822-f59c7c7c1b5f.jpg]
The Russell Glacier descending toward a lake of its own meltwater near Kangerlussuaq, Greenland NYT Worrying signs from the Arctic  regions and the Equator that drives air Scientists say fires in currents that move high and low pressure systemsaround the globe.Major changes the region could have to the Arctic will most likely have far- major consequences reachingconsequences,thoughscientists can't yet predict exac tly what they willbe.  The thawingArctic is also shaking up DAvid geLles geopolitics.With seaice melting, new ship- pinglanes are opening up.Asaresult, Rus- IN A YEAR FULL of troubling signs that sia and China have sought to project their Earth's dimateis rapidlychanging,someof influence in the regionin recentyears. That. the most alarming signals came from the  hasled Canada to stepupits military pres- Arctic.The thawing tundra has become a ence in the region and seek to work more source of greenhouse gas .emissions,  closely with the US. Meanwhile, tensions instead of locking away carbon.Seaicelev- betwcen Russia and the Westhave resulted  els are near historic lows. Fires are getting in scientists being shut out ofthe Russian worse. Surface air temperatures are near Arctic,compromising efforts to collectreli- recordhighs.And polar bears are in trouble.  able data on one of the largest and most "There's a lot going on in the Arctic," significant swaths of theArctic.  said Brendan Rogers,anArctic scientist at Have we hit a tipping point? the Woodwell Climate Research Centerin Falmouth, Massachusetts. "There's Scientists can't yet say that the big changes in the rivers, and THE changes being observed in the with salmon,and big changes Arctic are irreversible, or that ARCTIC  in the atmosphere, andwith they are accelerating and sea ice, and ocean produc- COULD compounding. And other tivity, and the fauna" EXPERIENCE ITS permafrost areasare still net One area of particular. FIRST DAY THAT IS carbon sinks, or natural concern is the increasein PracticaLly ice- reservoirs that store more wildfires.Fire season is get- FREEBYTHE carbon than they emit. Still,  tinglonger,firesare buming things are moving fast up YEAR2027 bigger and hotter, and more. north. The Arctic is warming fires are being ignited by light- four times as fast as the rest of the ning strikes. Rogers saidthat,because planet. In the waters that connect the of climate change,"the fires are happen- Atlanticandthe PacificOceansin northem ing too quickly, too much" Canada,seaicewas the lowesteverremrded Another point of acute concem: Parts in the period from October of 202 3 to Sep-  of the Arctic that have long stored carbon tember.In Canada's Western Arctic, thaw- are now turning into sources of carbon.  ing permafrost is triggeringlandslides and Recently,the National Oceanicand Atmos-  making it anearcertainty that some villages. phericAdministration announced that the willhave tomove.This summer,theeastem Arctic tundra has in recent decades been half of Hudson Bay, hone to the world's "adding more carbondioxide to theatmos- most-studied polar bears, was ice-free a phere than it has removed." monthearlier than usual. Agroup ofscientistsalso recently wamed What happens in theArctic that the Arctic could experience its first day doesn't stay in the Arctic A warmerArctic has the potentialto the 11th year in a row, the Arctic was more alter global weather pattems.It's the tem-.  abnormallywarm than the world as a whole.. perature gradient between the polar -nyt Sun, 05 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS ead to tad https://epaper.financialexpress.coi

[Extracted from 2c3e3b58-2573-422c-a68c-da00f30284ed.jpg]
AROUND 1.27 MMSCMD OF GAS HAS BEEN REALLOCATED Govt boosts  gas supplies  firms, stocks rise 0 to CGD FE BUREAU THE AFTEREFFECT New Delhi, January 3 !Intra-day on BSE (), Jan'3 SHAre prICes OF City Gas Distribution(CGD)companies, Indraprastha Gas Mahanagar Gas Gujarat Gas including Indraprastha Gas, 4601 1,345  525 441.2 : Mahanagar Gas, and Gujarat 3.35 1,316 - 1.21 Gas,surged byup to 6%on Fri- 450 1,330 520 day, recovering from intraday lows. The rally came after the 440 315 515. oil mini stry announced reallo- 430- 1,300 510  cationof natural gas, diverting 427:35 :508 ::1,290.33  supplies from LPG production 420 Previous 1,285 - Previous 505 Pravious to city gas retailers to meet (close: 426.9 cbse:1296:15 close:201.3 the demand for compressed 410 1,270 500 Open Close Open Close Open Close  natural gas (CNG) and piped cooking gas. Sharepricesof Indraprastha ural Gas Corporation (ONGC) touse eitherhigher-priced gas cut supplies of domestic gas to Gas rose by as much as 6.19% to reduce gas supplied for LPG produced from new fields or city gas retailers by as much as  to a high of 453.35 on the BSE production.Ofthe total 2.55 rely on imported liquefied 40% in viewof limited output before closing at 2441.20,up  million standard cubic meters natural gas (LNG) to replace  leading citygas retailers to hike 3.35%fromthepreviousclose. per day (mmscmd) of gas used the lost volumes.The mi nistry CNG prices by 2-3 per kg. The Mahanagar Gas stock for LPG production, 1.27 also ordered pro-rata alloca.  Thehike in CNGprices made gained 2.5% intraday and mmscmd (0.637 mmscmd tionof gas from newwells and it less attractive than alternate ended the day at 1,316, up each from Gail and ONGC) has earmarked ONGC's Ramnad fuels like petrol and diesel. 1.53%. Gujarat Gas share prices been reallocated to the CGD field for the city gas sector, "To resolve this, the ministry closed at 514.15,reflecting a sector for CNG and piped gas which will make available of petroleumand natural gasin 1.2% increase. supplies during the January- about 1.7-2 mmscmd of gas to. a December 31 order rejigged According to PTI, the oil March quarter. city gas retailers. some allocations of gas pro- ministry has ordered state- The report further stated The government in October duced from below ground and owned Gail and Oil and Nat- that Gail and ONGC will have and November last year had undersea, the report said. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 0.0 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76555639 read to Lead

[Extracted from 2ececbf7-d3e7-48b0-b6ba-c933406e23b2.jpg]
CPSE dividend receipts at 86% of FY25 target o Dividends likely ON TRACK to exceed the Centre's Budget target by dividends a decent margin from CPSEs (R cr) 63;749  PRASANTA SAHU New Delhi, January3 THE CENTRE'S DIVIDEND receipts from the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CpsEs) and other investments have fetched 48,376 croreor 86% of the annual target so FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 farin the current financial year. 'So far Going by the performance of the CPSEs so far, the dividend receipts from these companies is poised to tion (6,298 crore), Indian Oil Cor. exceed 260,000 crore for the sec- poration (5,091 crore) and  ondyearin a row in FY25 asagainst Telecommunications Consultants the target of 56,260 crore. India(3,762 crore). As against the Budget estimate Higher dividend receipts from of 50,000 crore, the dividends CPSEs will further cushion the gov- from CPsEs and other residual ernment's fiscal deficit in FY25. stakes in other firms had fetched Thanks to the dividend of <2.11 the Centre<63,749 crore in FY24,  trillion from the RBI as against the  the highest in any financial year. Budget estimate of 80,000. These CPSE dividends, other 90,000 crore, the government has than from the Reserve Bank ofIndia pegged the fiscal deficit for FY2 5 at andstate-run financialinstitutions, 4.9%of GDPfrom 5.1% estimated have been driven by robust perfor- in the interim Budget. mancein awidespectrumof sectors, Going by the spending pace including petroleum, energy, min- which moderated compared to last ing and commodities. year,the fiscal deficit may be lower Top dividend payers to the gov- than 4.9% despite a likely lower ernmentinclude Coal India(8,073 nominal GDP size thananticipated crore), Oil and Natural Gas Corpora- in the Budget. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 @. https://epaper.financialexr )  Read to Leao

[Extracted from 3229f3b3-be2b-406f-9973-cce4b04610b5.jpg]
FROMTHEFRONTPAGE Not top, the new models and updates, the competition will be fierce. HDFC Bank deposits up 15.8% in Q3 2025 auto PM: Need sector race hot 5-6 more THE  BANK'S CURRENT  REPORT CARD Q3FY23  Q3FY24 at middle level account. savings account (CASA) deposits grewby 4.4% (in  lakh cr)  % chg y-o-y cooperatives  HDFC Bank financials Kia's efforts' to sustain to 8.72 lakh crore as of like Amul December 31, 2024, from CASA deposits momentum included Gross advances launching a facelifted Sonet, 8.35 lakh crore a year ago. 24.69 68.35 He said FPOs are playing a big Time deposits increased 25.42 4.4 which stabilised its sales. The 8.72 Toyota-Kia rivalry is poised to  role in ensuring better prices for 22.7% to 16.91 crore as of  intensify in 2025. Toyota is set farmers' produce."Milk produc- December 31, .2024 from Deposits Time deposits 22.14 713.78 to introduce an electric vehicle  tion is currently providing the 13.78 lakh crore a year ago. 22.7 25.63 16.91 based on Maruti Suzuki's highest retuns to farmers. We "During the quarter ended eVitara, while Kia plans to. need to establish five-six more December 31, 2024, the bank launch an EV and its new sub- cooperatives like Amul with a securitised/assigned loans of  quarterwere up 10% year-on- to acquire aggregate holdingof 4-metre SUv, the Syros. With nationwide readh, he said. 21,600 crore (year-to-date at year; commercial and rural.  up to 9.50% of the share capi- Kia opening bookings for the  The Gujarat Cooperative Milk <46,300 crore) as a strategic bankingloans were up11.5%, tal, or voting rights in Kotak Syros recently and deliveries Marketing Federation, the parent initiative, saidthe bank in afil- but corporate loans declined Mahindra Bank, AU Small scheduled to begin in mid- of popular milk brand Amul, ing to stock exchanges. 10.3%. On Friday, the lender Finance Bank and Capital February, the competition is  ensures S0%of every rupeespent  Retail loans during the had received theRBI'sapproval Small Finance Bank. expected to heat up early in the by consumers goes to dairy farm- year. Meanwhile, the race for  ers.To promote the cooperative the third spot saw Mahindra. sector, the government estab-.  benefits of natural farming forthe records that should not leave. or the monsoon session. and Mahindra making  lished the ministryof cooperation rural econony.He highlighted the India, the conmittee will review On parental consent for significant strides in 2024.  in 2021.Around 70,000primary  importance of linking self-help the requirement, hold consulta-  minors touse social media and Although Tata Motors retained  agricultural credit societies (PACS)  groups with MSMEs to meet the  tions,andthen issue final recom- verification of parents'identity  its position for the full year with arebeingcomputerisedtoensure demand for theirproducts across mendations. This process will Vaishnaw said the rules have sales of 562,468 units a that farmersand villagers get bet- the country. He emphasised the  prevent disruptions that could carefully addressed the large modest 2% growth from  need for proper branding and arise if ministries issue localisa-  harm the digital world poses to 550,838 units in 2023), strengthening the rural econonsy.  marketing of these products and tion notifications without fol-  the privacy of people, especiall Mahindra's impressive 22% "When intentions are noble, stressed the inportanceof focus- lowing due process. children. "Virtualtokens forveri- growth to 528,460 units the results are satisfying", said  ing on the quality,packaging,and Thedraft rules underthe Dig- fication can be an effective way brought it dangerously close.  Modi, pointing to a survey that  branding of GI products.He said ital Personal Data Protection given that we have a reasonably Notably, Mahindra revealed that compared to 2011,  some people are trying to disturb (DPDP) Act, released Friday, large digitalarchitecture inplac outperformed Tata in the  consumption in rural India has  peace in thename of caste politics  includeaclauserequiringsignif- in India, Vaishnaw said. Virtua second half of the calendar year, nearlytripled,indicatingthatpeo- and called for thwarting such  icant data fiduciaries to comply tokens ensure data privacy a. selling 278,112 units against ple are spending more on their designs to preserve social har- with localisation mandates for they eliminate the need to share Tata's 269,354. preferred items. He noted that monyin rural parts of the country. specific personal data. These sensitive identity documents.  Mahindra's ascendancy was  previously, villagers had to spend  Speaking onthe oscasion,FM mandates will be determined  besides aligningwith global stan- driven by blockbuster launches  more than 50% of their income Nirmala Sitharaman said banks based on recommendations dards. The Act empowers the such as the XUV 3XO, which  on food,but for thefirst time since haveundertakensaturationdrive fron the committee and  Data Protection Boardto impose consistently sold nearly 10,000 independence, the expenditure for 16 government schemes,  approved by the Central govern- penalties of up to 250 crore on units per month, and the Thar  on food in rural areas has fallen  including Pradhan Mantri Jan ment. The rules are designed to data fiduciaries on non-compli- Roxx, which garnered below 50%. Modi highlighted  Dhan Yojana,PM Mudra and PM  balance regulation and innova- ance It also includes a provision a staggering 176,000 bookings that as a result of his govern- SVANidhi. tion while safe guarding citizens' forvoluntarydisdosure,allowing within an hour of its launch in.  ment's efforts, 250 million people. rights,' Vaishnaw said, adding organisations to proactively Sectoral needs October. "Mahindra's sales'  have been lifted out of poverty in thatIndia'sapproachtopersonal report breaches. momentum isundeniable,with  the past 1O years, with the major- to drive data  data protection could seta global "This voluntary unde rtaking products like the XUv 3XO ity being from rural areas. He bendhmark To ensure a smooth provision incentivises trans- becoming category leaders. In mentioned a recent study bythe localisation: transition, the government is parency and aligns with contrast, Tata's Curvv EV and SBI, which revealed that rural proposing atwo-yeartimeframe the overarching goal of Curvv ICE, launched in the  poverty in India has decreased Government for businesses tocomplywiththe fostering trust in the data protec. latter half of 2024, failed to from approximately26%in 2012 new law. This will allow indus- tion ecosystem, Vaishnaw to less than 5% in 2024.Stressing "Selective restrictions is the achieve superstar status despite  tries to adapt their systems and expained. The minister being promising offerings," the need to work on diversifying best practice in the world today,  avoid operational disruptions. reiterated the government's analysts said. As Mahindra rural income,the PM highlighted  and thecommitteeframeworkis  Following a 45-day public commitment toa phased,consul- inches closer to Tata, the battle  the importance of making irriga-  needed to avoid any disruptions consultation period, the final tativeapproachthatfosters inno for. supremacy will likely  tion affordable, promoting micro- to the industry,'Vaishnawunder- rules are expected to be pre- vation, protects citizens, and intensify in 2025. With both irrigation, creating more rural lined. For instance,if the health  sented in Parlianent during the addressessector-specificlocalisa-  automakers expected to unveil enterprises, and maximising the  ministryidentifies certainhealth second halfofthe Budget session tionrequirements. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025 ReaD to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76557347

[Extracted from 34723886-20a8-41ff-bb06-34bcd57c7274.jpg]
QUASHES RETIREMENT RUMOURS Rohit clears the air: Not going anywhere Says those on outside everyday, life changes. So I have. form with the bat, The Indian this belief in myself that things Erpress had reported Thursday can't influence when will change. But at the same that Sharma won't be featuring  he stops playing time,you know I have tobe real-  in the Sydney Test. It is learnt istic as well'Afterhislean run of. that the selectors had a word. with the captainand told himhe  SRIRAM VEERA is not being looked at as an  Sydney, Janvary 4 ROHIT SHARMA optionbeyond the ongoing Bor- 'ON STANDING DOWN  der GavaskarTrophyseries. WITH HIs SigNAtUre humour, FROM THE SYDNEY TEST  Sharma not playing at Syd-  Rohit Sharmadeliveredalineto ney, seems to have been a deci- confirm he is not going any- Decision is not for sion taken by the player and where just yet, quashing retire- head coach Gautam Gambhir retirement, nor am ment rumours. after a mecting with the chair- I going to step aside In a 15-minute interview  man of selectors,Ajit Agarkar. with Indian broadcaster Star from the game.... But the decision to retire would Sports at lunch on Day 2 of the I am out of this be a personalone. fifth and final Test between Sharma didn't walk out for  match because bat India and Australia in Sydney, the toss at the Sydney Test. The Sharma, who is not in the play- nahi chal raha hai decision to stand down was ing XI, said, "Sensible aadmi (the bat isn't firing)  made aftercoming to Sydney,he hoon, mature aadmi hoon, do said' I stooddown. This iswhat I  bachhon ka baap hoon, mere say.Stand down, Sharma said."1  paas thodasa dimaaghai (I ama will say a few words, fiftywords sensible man, I am a mature will be made out of it. The chat man, I am a father of two kids, I that I had with the coach and have some brains)" was his selector was very simple: I am  response when he was asked not making runs.It isan impor- about his short-tem future as tant match, we need players in captain. He said those on the form. You cannot carry too outside cannot influence when. manyout-of-formplayersin the. he stops playing the game or team. It was difficult for me to leading the side. make this call, but if everything Sharma said he "stood is put in front of us, then this down' from the Sydney Test decisionwas sensible. I did not purely becausehis batting form thinktoo much ahead.Whatthe. hasn't been good. He said his team needed at this time,this  decision to sit outin Sydneywas was theonly thought(thatledto "difficult but sensible", main- the call)' At the toss on Day 1, taining that he was capable of a stand-incaptain Jasprit Bumrah tur naround with the bat. had said:"Obviously,ourcaptain "This decision is not for (Sharma) has shown his leader- retirement, nor am I going to ship (by taking this call). He has step aside from the game, opted to rest in this game. So Sharma said."I am out of this thatshows there's aunityin our match because bat nahi chal team. There's no self- raha hai (the bat isn't firing). ishness. We are "There is noguarantee thatthe. looking  to bat will not work after five.  whatever is months, or after two months.  in the team's We have seen a lot in cricket," best interest," every minute, every second, Bumrah said. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/765616 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 353c1a48-41f2-4204-bc27-03f974ba048a.jpg]
O INTERVIEW: GUNJIT JAIN, Executive Vice-President, Marketing, Colgate-Palmolive India 'Oral care has lagged 0 in premiumisation' Gunjit Jain, Executive Vice-  pictures So confidentialityand that people are using toothpaste President, Markcting Colgate- the robustness of the technology is and brushing often enough?The Palmolivc India talks to key. The data we are collecting has.  answeris a resounding no.The Alokananda Chakraborty about  per capita consumption,which why thecompany isbankingon Which it is being collected. is the grammage of toothpaste technology and premiumisationto used per individual inthe drive growth. Edited cxcerpts: What steps are you taking to  country, is behind some of our  im prove percapita toothpaste neighbouring countries like Please take us through the consumption? Thailand or the Philippines. technology input in your latest Here we have to focus on the About 80% of urban Indians  oral health campaign. difference between penetration do not brush at night, theyonly We call it the oral health  and consumption.Toothpaste as brush once a day.5 5% of rural  movement ratherthan another  a category has universa! Indians brush not daily but  ad campaign. We startedit penetration in this country.  occasionally.And nobody goes to  because a large number of Indians Every household inurban and the dentist. As market leaders,it have oral health issues but hardly rural India has toothpaste at is our responsibilit y to make anybody goes to the dentist.So,  home, which wasn't the case 10  people realise that brushing  nobody realises they have an issue years ago.But does that mean every day -- not just in the un til it tums painful.  moming but also brushingat The reality is that we are all night -- reduces the chances of supposedto go to a dentist. cavities by 50%. regularlybut only 1 outof 10 PER CAPITA Indians did last year. In other  The companyhas also spoken words, oral health awareness is about driving growth through an issue. To make it simple for  premiumisation.Can you SOMEOFOUR  people, we've come up with an elaborate? NEIGHBOURS AI-enabled WhatsApp-based  Oral care has lagged in LIKETHAILANDOR tool where you can answer a few. premiumisation.Why so? Avery simple questions, take 3 THE PHILPPINESD honest answer is that for several pictures of your teeth, send it, years the market leader, whichis and in an instant you get an AI- Colgate,did not invest in screened dental report. We've generating awareness and also tied up with the Indian drivingthat seriously.And it is Dental Association and we have. our responsi bility to do it. access to 50,000dentists. So,  We've picked it upas one of you can just put in your pin the key strategies for growth. code and you will get a free You need superior products that dental consultation. can deliver perceivable superior We've got resounding  benefits. You need superior feedback from the industry, communicationto convince from consumers and we've got  people that this is the right  several thousand screenings thing.We've got products on  done already. The most three specific fronts. For important thing is this is not anybody who's proactive a one-time ad, it will about their oral health,we continue so we are calling it are owningthe a'movement'. "preventive"segment with our flagshipproduct Howmuch time did the Colgate Total. Second, for whole process take and thosewhowant teeth how are you dealingwith whitening, which is oral the issue of data beauty, we've got Colgate security? Visible White.And then  It's been more than ayearin for people who've got  themakingand the number problems, we have  one reason is when we get therapeutic solutions like intoAI, it comes with alot of a Colgate Sensitive ora responsibility.We are collecting Colgate PerioGard, which first-partyhealth data of we've recently introduced for  individuals,indudingtheir  gum problems.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76569196

[Extracted from 37763f95-78bc-43e3-b8b7-2a34e9b05356.jpg]
Bajaj Housing Finance stock may drop 21%: Kotak report o Initiates coverage track record,and a clean asset qual- age while growth remains strong. ity over the years are the key posi- Hence, the near-term retum on. with'sell' rating; tives for the firm. equity (RoE) may remain range. "Bajaj Housing Finance has. boundat 13-14%,withexpectations target price at <100 reported robustasset quality perfor- of mid-teen RoEs over the medium. mancewith gross stage 3 term,'it said. FE BUREAU of O.3% in FY24, low The housing finance New Delhi, January 3 non-performing loans company's low-risk pro- (NPLs) in the non-retail file is aided by a focus on NOting that Its current expen- segments set it apart the salaried mass afflu- sive valuationspose a downside risk from large peers with ent segment,andadiver- to Bajaj Housing Finance, Kotak volatile track record. We sified business mix that ANALYST Institutional Equities has initiated expect credit costs to includes home loans, coverage on the stock with a'sell' remain moderate at 7- lease rental discounting, CORNER ratingand a target price of <100. 17 bps over FY25-27E" loan against property, This signals apotentialdownside of  the brokeragesaid. and developer loans, the 21%in the stock, it said. It expects Bajaj Housing Finance  brokerage said. "Bajaj Housing Finance trades todeliveran earnings growthof 25% The key risks to Bajaj Housing rich (4.7X book and 39X earnings CAGR(16% EPS CAGR) over FY24- Finance's business indude effective. FY26E), posing a downside risk 27Eonthe badk of 24%AUM growth, execution ofits businessstrategiesto (21%to our fair value of 100) and stable margins, lower operating sustain high growth; riskto net inter- drives our'sell' rating"thedomestic expenses,andinch-upincredit costs. est margin (NIM) from migration to brokerage firm said, adding that a "Recent capital issuance will offset EBLR or sharp rate movements; and high growth runway, parent Bajaj the pressure on cost of borrowings, intense competition in the prime Finance's exceptional execution leading to flatmargins, reducelever- segment, it added. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 0.0 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76552671 Read to LeAD

[Extracted from 38efae8e-bd89-4a5d-abd8-a34b66ce76f5.jpg]
EXPERTS WARN OF UNCERTAINTIES Re closes Market rally at another riding on record low Jaspreet KalrA Mumbai, January 2 high hopes THE RUPEE ClOSED at its weak- est closing level on record for the eighth consecutive session on Thursday, as a widened arbitrage AkshatAGorDe between the non-deliverable and DAY OF GAINS Mumbai, January 2 outright forwards market added to the currency's troubles. Nifty ATA TIME when marketexperts have The domestic currency closed  been advising investors to prune Intra-day, Jan 2 at 85.7525 against the dollar, retums'expectations from 2025,the 1.83% down 0.1% on the day.  benchmark indices' 2.3% surge in 435.20 points 24,188.65 While the rupee hit a low of the first two days has raised hopes 85.79 during the session, it Close that the stock market may deliver avoided deeperlosses on the back 23,783 strong returns this year. Market of likely dollar-selling intervention experts, however, aren't impressed, Open by the Reserve Bank of India, pointing out that the fundamental traders said. concerns of expensive valuations, While state-run banks were eamings downgrades,shallow inter- 1 23,742.9 spotted offering dollars earlier in . Previous close est rate cuts, and low gross domestic  the session aswell, traders said the  product remain.Theyalso cautioned Top sectoral gainers. offers were amplified near 85.78- about near-term uncertainties with Sector %gain 85.79 levels. RBI had intervened Donald Trump taking charge in the strongly near theselevels last week US, and the Federal Reserve's policy Auto 3:7.9 aswell when the rupee slumped to meeting at theendofthe month. 2.26 anall-time low of 85.8075.. The last two days have been an  On the day, gains in most Asian Consumer durables 1.89 exceptionas domestic,and onThurs- currencieswere oflittle help tothe [ Financial services. 1.64 day,even foreign investors are front- rupee in the face of heightened  loading their expectations on hopes  Private banks . 11.41 dollar demand driven by banks  ofapick-upin consumption and bet- exploitingarbitrage opportunities Top Nifty gainers ter-than-expected corporate carn- between the NDF and onshore ingsin the upcomingresults season. %gain over-the-counter (OTC) markets. Company Other contributing factors indude The widened gap between NDF Eicher Motors  8.55  good auto sales numbers,decent GST and outright forwards alsosparked Bajaj Finsery. collections in December, strong quar- 7.84 J a surge in dollar-rupee forward terly deposit growth by banks, and a Bajaj Finance 6:32  premiums with the 1-yearimplied  positive outlook for the tech sector. yield touching its highest level 5.61] VKVijayakumar,chiefinvestment since October2022. strategistatGeojit Financial Services, Shriram Finance 4.53 The forward premiums said Thursday's rally was "totally retreated later on the back of dol- unexpected',given the sustained sell- lar-rupee- buy/sell swaps con- ing by the F Pls amid the strongdollar Swastika Investmart. ducted by state-run banks, likely  and thehigh bond yields in the US. "While DII buying can support  on behalf ofthe RBI, traders said. "Leading indicators available so the market at lower levels,that is not REUTERS far do not indicate a pick-up in eco- sufficient to take the market higher. nomic growth. GST collections for For higher market levels, we will have December have declined 2.97% to wait for indic ations of growth and NO RELIEF month-on-month,indicating con- eamings recovery,Vijayakumarsaid.  Rupee vs dollar tinuation of the slowdown. There- However, heexpects the rallyin high fore, Q3 corporate eamings are  Intra-day, Jan 2  quality large caps to sustain. (Inverted scale)  unlikely to register arebound.This Kranthi Bathini,directorofequity means investors have to focus onseg- strategy at WealthMills Securities, 85.70 0.12% men tswhich will buck the slowdown said,"While Q3 eamings are likdlyto like IT, pharma, and to some extent, be better, we will have to watch the 85.76  financials. Luxury consumption like earnings season over the next few hotels,jewelleryand aviation alsoare  weeks.Atthe same time, we should likely to post good results, he said. wait for FPI participation to ret um While the market had been fully afteryear-endholidays." ext remely oversold for several days, Kotak Institutional Equities also with FPIs holdingheavy short posi-  highlighted three headwinds for the tions in index futures-they lacked  market in the short term--expensive a trigger for any significant short-  valuations across caps and sectors se:8!  covering move on Thursday, said except financials, earnings cuts, and Open Close Santosh Meena,head of research at  sluggish consumption demand.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 Ead to tea. https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76549513

[Extracted from 3f78c247-b5e0-4741-a332-7c6b340f2c7f.jpg]
Import of oil from Russia 3% in Dec ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ  As India's refining capacityis set OIL TURMOIL New Delhi, January 3 to rise, refiners and policymakers are intensifying efforts to diversify India's crude oil imports (in barrels per day) IndIa's Import of Russian the crude import basket to reduce crude oil declined by 13.2% to 10,37,596 L0428  Dec '23  Nov'24 Dec '24 overdependenceon afew supplying 10,00,567 1.39 million barrels per day in 950'9' 9,47,180 countries orregions. December against 1.61 million  Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 13,02,087 8,10,292 barrels per day in November, data visit to Guyana has bolstered expec-  6,78,994 from Vortexa showed. o . 13,96 ] 6,24,605 tations that the country's refiners. 5,73,523  However, Russia remained the are nearing long-term crude oil largestcrudesupplierto the country 4,65,301 import agreements with the rela- ,51,493 in December accounting for 31% of  tively new South American supplier, India's total crude oil imports. 2,07,223 S&Psaid. ,653 1,37,822 The country's overall crude oil "Recent diplomatic visits will importsincreased by almost 4%to  help bringin crude oil from Africa 44,633 4.46 million barrels per day 42,94,17743,03,824  and Latin America, but the growth month-on-month in December, in absolute volume would depend. 44,64,876 with higher crude imports from on the overall crude market," said Iraq offsetting the decline in Abhishek Ranjan, South Asia oil Iraq Russia Saudi United United Others imports from Russia. research lead at S&P Global Com- Arabia Arab States "In December, the top five sup- Source: Vortexa Emirates Total modity Insights. plies included Russia, Iraq, Saudi "The share of West Asian crude Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, shipments to India's basket is likely  andAngola,with Angolaovertaking  day in November. "The US incoming president,  tion in the near-tem..  to drop bya few percentage points the United States as the fifth-largest "Given the discounts for Russian  Donald Trump,has announced that According to the data, India's  due to the diversificationof import crude supplier,' said Xavier Tang, barrels over the WestAsian coun-  heintends to impose 25% tariffs on private refiners bought 1.68 million sources. But, overall, the crude market analyst at Vortexa. terparts, India will continue to pri-. imports from Canada and Mexico. barrels of crude oil per day in  grades in India's import basket are "Indian refiners turned towards oritise importing crude oil from  This would greatly increase thecost December while public down- expected to remain medium grades Africanand WestAsianproducers for Russia'Tang said. of Canadianheavycrudeswhich are  stream companies imported 2.78  and we don't anticipatea significant crude as Russian crudeexports fell" "However, with the recent  transportedviapipeline into the US, million barrds of crudeoil, account- drop in shareof sour crudein 202 5," While the share of crude oil reduction in West Asian crude offi- of which, some are exported to  ing for 6 2% of the total imports. Ranjan added. sourced from Russia and Saudi cial selling prices, India will likely India. With the new import tariffs,  India'soildemand growth rateis  India,which imports as much as Arabia, the two traditional oil sup- supplement any shortfall in Russ- Canadian heavy crude will almost now expected to surpass China's, 85% of its needs, has said that it pliers to the country,fell in Decem- ian supplies with West Asian crude be economically unattractive to making it one of the fastest-grow- will continue buying oil from the ber, the share of crude imports grades,"he added. Indian refiners, as such, we could ing consumption centres, prompt- cheapest available sources to meet  from the United Arab Emirates and  India's crude imports are also expect to see lower exports of these ing the country's refiners to acce- growing demand, with Russian oil Iraq increased. dependent on thecountry'sdomes- crudes from the US Gulf to India," erate expansion plans and widen falling in that category due.to Iraq's share of Indian imports tic oil demand and export margins. said Tang. "The mainstream US crude diversification, as per S&P attractive discounts.  increased to 2 3% this month, up Meanwhile, the country's crude. crudewill likelyremain unaffected. Global Commodity Insights. The country's dependency on from 16% last month. Imports  imports from the Us is likely to and their exports to India will still "In 2025, India is forecast to import of crude oil during April to from Iraq increased by 48.3% on remain unaffected under the new be driven by cconomics."' deliver a relatively faster growth in Novemberofthe currentfiscal rose to  month to 1.03 million barrels per administration, analysts say. US While Trump has announced oil demand of 3.2%, compared 88.1%, up from 87.6% in the corre- day last month, as per the data. domestic productionis projected that he plans to expedite drilling with China's 1.7%," said Kang Wu,  sponding periodofFY24 amid rising 1mports from Saudi Arabia fell by  to increase next year, as part ofthe permits on federal land,analysts at global head of macro and oil demandand stagnant domestic pro- 8% to 573,523 barrels per day last new drilled and completed wells Vortexabelieve that this would have demand research at S&P Global  duction, as per data from the Petro-  month from 624,605 barrels per coming online. limitedimpact on US crude produc- Commodity Insights.  leum Planning and Analysis Cell. Sat, 04 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76553604 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 4a27b54c-96a0-406c-81bd-8babee8ad2b8.jpg]
FE FEATURES Howto  consume E HAVE BEEN relying upon dry fruits and nuts across genera- tions to help us get through the harsh While they are rich in nutrients and are a staple of traditio.  of traditionaldiets duringthisseason but have also been valued fortheir therapeu- colder months, eating too much can have negative health  tic properties and potential to boost our  overall well-being.While they are rich in nutrients, overeating them can lead to a  range of health issues, especially at this timeofthe year.What's also important is  to know how to consume them. Here are  some important facts that you can keep in mind to make these humble foods your ultimate winter wellness allies... Winter superfoods  Fiona Sampat,clinical dietitian, Kokil- aben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai, lists out some of the common  dry fruits and nuts available in thecoun- the wintermonths: ALMOnDS: Almonds are among the  agood source of healthy fats, protein,and fibre, which provide sustained energy almonds as a snack in winter can help day, reducing fatigue and improving  overall productivity.Almonds contain high levels of vitamin E, potassium, cal- cium, phosphorus,and other minerals. WALNUTS: Walnuts are a great ATLEAST ONE SERVINGOR (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid AHANDFUL(AROUND that is important for reducing .  15-20 Gm) Of miXeD  inflammation. In fact,it is the nUtS& DryFruits  only nut significantly high in ShoULdBE  omega-3 fatty acids. These CONNNNSSENA  omega-3 fatty acids contribute DAILY BASIS to improved cognitive function,  memory,andmentalwell-being.This  is important during winters when you may experience less natural sunlight, which can impact overall brain health. CASHE wS: Cashews help in keepingyou  good source of healthy fats, including fats. These fats serve as a concentrated warm by providing a steady release of energy over time. They also contain zinc, which is essential for immune cell func-  tion and antioxidants, such as polyphe- nols, offering several health benefits.  PISTACHIOS: These nuts are an amaz-  theyarerichinpotassium, fibre,vitamin  lower oxidative stress, which keeps you  ter. They are rich in a variety of nutrients  and may support weight loss, gut health,  They are especially rich in lutein and zeaxanthin, both of which are very important antioxidants for eye health. which helps the blood vessels relax. may be beneficial for preventing excellent health. Additionally, he says  Antioxidants may help keep the skin cells constipation and controlling blood cashews are extremelybeneficial in the for your gut bacteria. young and prevent damage from aging  su gar. Dates may be helpful forlowering  prevention of arteriosclerosis andstroke. .cells. Raisins also contain valuable  inflammation and preventing plaques RAISINS: Its high iron content makes it How much is too much nutrients, such as vitamin C, selenium,  from formingin the brain. and zinc. At least one serving (around 15-20 gm) combating anaemia, while its soothing  healthful fats,vitamins,andantioxidants  or a handful of mixed nutsand dry fruits  nature aids in digestion and respiratory DATEs: Dates contain antioxidants that' found in almonds,walnuts,and cashews.. should be consumed on a dailybasis. Up  health during colder months. Raisins  Iron and natural energy are found in.  to 50 gm of mixed nuts and dry fruits is  may be a simple way to help keep the  ing an extra layer of defenceagainst sea- dates and figs" weighs in Dr Ashok safe to consume, however, it is advised  digestive systemhealthy. Raisinscontain sonal illnesses.The combination of vita- Grover, senior consultant, internal med-  to consume them in parts spread out helpful soluble fibres,which givebodyto.  mins and minerals in dates supports a icine, Max Super Speciality Hospital, throughout the day rather than all the stool and help it pass through the Vaishali, Ghaziabad. at once. Dr Praveen Gupta, principal director  Overconsumption of these nuts can lead to digestive issues, may cau se wcight digestion and promote regularity. ness arsenal. Their nutritional benefits  and chief of neurology at Fortis Hospital  Raisins are a low sodium food that also  may support brain health and prevent  in Gurugram, also points out how nutri-  contains a good source of potassium,  disease. Dates are high in fibre, which  ent-dense walnuts help keep the brain in intake.Itcan also clevate sodiumlevels if  Sun, 05 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76558636

[Extracted from 4bb0d3e1-8380-4b4b-bf61-6353a5589610.jpg]
Explainer o What has led to o Criticism and what the data says the public debate CRITICS OFTHE H-1Bvisa argue thatthe FY2 3 were forannual salaries below scheme undermines American workers.  $100,o00(for IT professionals in the US, overH-1Bvisa? While tech leaders who are part of. the figure was $104,420).In FY23,the Trump's support base have backed the medianannual income of people visa programme, the detractors have  approved towork in the USon H-1Bvisas LAst weekend, tech billionaire Elon was $118,000.The corresponding  questioned the claim ofa dearth of local  Musk got involved in a public dispute  talent. Instead, critics view the problem  overthe H-1B visa programme that  income for people in computerand  allows US employers to hire foreign  as one of tech firms considering  mathematical occupations in the US is  American talent as too expensive. Data  about $113,000.The vast majorityof workers. Musk, who is a key supporter  shows the criticism is not entirely.  approvals is for workers in science, of President-elect Donald Trump,  unfounded.Accordingto an analysis of technology engineering and maths --  defended the H-1B visa sayinghe could US Citizenship and Immigration Services. 65% were forcomputerrelated jobsin go to war for it. Hewas respondingto (USCIS) data obtained by Bloomberg, FY2023.H-1Bvisas aren't hinderingthe criticism from far-right activists and  IMMIGRATION rest of the workforce, experts point out. Trump supporters over the latter's 69% of approvals for Indian workersin  appointment of Chennai-bom venture FACE-OFF capitalist Sriram Krishnan as senior  policy advisoron artificial intelligence. o How changes o Atightrope It stirred a debate around i mmigration policies.Laura Loomer,a political Why Trump's base walk forTrump 72% could affect activist,cited Krishnan's past support for legal immigration and easing Indian IT firms procedures forthe entry of skilled Efforts have Been made earlier to OF OVERALL restrict the H-1B visa programme. workers into the US, while Steve. is split on H-1B visa  H-1BVISASWERE  Bannon,a longtime aide ofTrump, INDIAISTHE biggest beneficiary ofthe During Trump's first presidential term, ISSUED TO INDIAN H-1B visa amongcountries, withthe  blamed"bigtecholigarchs"for he hadpromisedto endthe"abuse"of  NATIONALS IN latest figures for FY23 showingthat foreign worker programmes, and a"Buy supporting H-1B visa.Trump backed Musk later, sayinghewas in favourof FY2023 72% ofthevisas were issued to Indian American, HireAmerican' executive A public row has erupted among Donald Trump's the visa programme although he has  nationals. Indian IT firms gainthe order increased scrutinyof H-1B visa most from the visa, initially granted  previouslytermedit "verybad"and  supporters overthe H-1B visa, whose biggest beneficiaries. PROPOSED CHAnGES "unfair forlocal workers.Thewarof  In OngOIng DEBATe  forthree years but can be extended up to 24% in 2018 comparedto 5-8%  are Indian nationals. FE explains the issues at the heart of words has divided Trump's support  to six years.If the ongoing rowin the  during the Obama years.Trump has  InTHE US INCLUDE  base with Musk and some othertech US amidthe nativist anger directedat since taken a U-turn.Tesla, which is the dispute, the criticism faced by the scheme, and how  INCREASE IN  billionaires in favourofH-1Bvisa and  Indians leads toproposed changes headed by Musk -- abig donor for MINIMUM WAGE hardliners against it. proposed changes could impact Indian IT companies.  suchas increase in minimum wage Trump's election campaign -- had 724  REQUIREMENTAND requirements(currentlyat$60,000) H-1B visa holdersthe last year alone. ADDITIONALFEEs oradditional fees could leadtoa Although companies and insiders do.  permanent shift in cost structures for  not anticipate big changes to the H-1B OWhy has Musk qualified his support? $60,000 Indian If companies, FE reported. visa or green cards underTrump,he Financial costs relatingtowages,and facesa tightrope walk keeping his flock MUSK, wHO HAS held a H-1 Bvisa himself,  expensive to hire from overseas than  induding increased compliance  of backe rs in Silicon Valley as well as his CURRENTLYTHE  softened his position days later, saying  domestically'.Although Musk had argued  were hiring thousands of relativelylow- burden, may have to be factored in.  anti-immigration Republican party wage workers in informationtechnology  MINIMUM ANNUAL that the programme is"broken"and that H-1Bvisa helped in recruiting*highly  Also, changed norms could make the hardliners and MAGAactivists together. skilled" professionals from abroad andthe WAGE REQUIREMENT (IT) and financial services sectors.Musk companies rethink their workforce The debate on H-1B visa could likely  UNDER H-1BVISA "raisingthe minimum salary significantly "top ~0.1% of engineering talent, some acknowleged that the majorityof H-1B strategies in the US, and thcy may set have abearing on America'spositionin  and addinga yearly cost for maintaining  MAGA(Make America Great Again) visa holders earned less thanor similarto PROGRAMME  up operations in places like Canada or tech globally,its workforce,and the the average American IT grnfaerarexp.epapr.in'  the H-1 B, making it materially more hardliners including Loomercited datato Mexico to service Americanclients.  identity of the Grand Old Partyitself.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76542021

[Extracted from 52fc5336-da3b-4eab-a2fc-6229b1c34354.jpg]
O EV OVERDRIVE INDIA MUST EMBRACE A BROADER, MORE INCLUSIVE VISION OF CLEAN MOBILITY Electric hype, hidden costs He ELectricvehicle (Ev) solution, they might not be the most revolution has been lauded efficient path forward, especiallyin pop.  as a game-changer in the ulous countries like India.The environ- fight against climate mental and resource burden of manu-  change,promising to reduce M MUNEER facturing millions of EVs could carbon emissions and promote sustain- outweigh benefits. A more sustainable able. transportation. Governments Fortune-500 advisor, start-up investor, and co-founder, approach could be in focusing on elec- Medici Instit ute for Innovation. X: @MuneerMuh worldwide are investing heavily in this trifying public transportation. transition through subsidies, policies, Buses,taxis,autorickshaws,and trains and infrastructure development. found that EVproductiongenerates 60% their disposal becomes anenvironmental form the backbone of mobility for mil- While EVs undoubtedly play a role in more carbon emissions than ICE vehicles challenge. Recycling them is neither eco- lions of Indians Electrifying these modes reducing emissions, the narrative sur- do, mainly due to battery production. nomically viable nor environmentally of transport could have a far-reaching rounding their unblemished benefits Manufacturing a 60 kilowatthour bat- friendly at scale. Only a small percentage impact and can reduce emissions and air deserves a closerlook An analysis reveals teryfor a Tesla Model 3adds 3.6-6 tonnes of materials can be recovered,leading to pollution. Citieslike Delhi, where air qual- that the EV revolution is not the panacea of CO2 toits lifecycle emissions. In addi- the accumulation of electronic waste. In ity regularly reaches hazardous levels, it is portrayed to be. Resource con- tion, a typical EV consumes six times India, wheree-waste management infra- could benefit immensely from such ini- straints, environmental implications,  more scarce minerals than any ICE vehi- structure is underdeveloped, this poses a tiatives. Electricbuses,whichhavealready  and socio-economic challenges raise cle.All of these raise an essential question: significant risk of contamination. been introduced in severalcities,demon- questions about the long-term sustain- Are we merely shifting emissions from Improper disposal can release toxic sub- strate the potential of this approach by abilityof this shift. the tailpipe to the factory floor? stances such as lithium,cobalt,and nicke! loweringemissionsand operatingcosts. At first glance, EVs seem li ke an envi- Acritical factor in evaluating theenvi- into the environment, jeopardising  In addition, exploring alternative ronmental saviour, producing zero ronmental benefits of EVs is the sourceof ccosystems and human health.  technologies such as hydrogen fuelcells tailpipe emissions. But this ignores the electricity used to charge India's transition to  or solid-state batteries could diversify significant resourcedemands and envi- them. In India, where coa! While personal EVs EVs requires extensive India's clean mobility strategy. These ronmental costs tied to their produc-  accounts for nearly 70% investments in infra- technologies, though still under devel. are a tempting tion, especially the manufacturing of  of power generation,the structure. According to opment,promiseto address some of the lithium-ion batteries,their main engine. so-called zero-emission  solution, they might the NITI Aayog,the coun- limitations of lithium-ion batteries. Lithium and cobalt, critical compo- vehicle has a carbon- not be the most trywould needat least 10 includingresourcedependency andlife- nents of EV batteries, are extracted at a intensivelifecycle.Accord-  million public charging efficient path cyde emissions. staggering environmentaland social cost. ing to the International stations tomeetits 2030 The promise of EVs is undeniable, Around 70% of the world's lithium Council on Clean Trans- forward, especially in EV targets. However, but so are their challenges.India's path reserves are concentrated inthe"lithium portation, EVs in coal- populous countries  India currently has fewer to sustainable transport cannot rely triangle" of Argentina, Chile, and Bolivia, reliant grids can havelife- like India than 5,000 such stations,  solely on EVs.A balanced approach that where mining operations are water- cydle emissions only highlighting the enor- integrates renewable energy develop. intensive,depleting resources in already marginally lower than  mity of the task ahead. ment, public transport electrification, arid regions. Cobalt, predominantly  modern ICE vehicles.  The financial burden doesn't stopat and alternative technologies is essen- sourced from Congo,presents an equally While India is making strides toward infrastructure. Setting up and main- tial. Policymakers must also address troubling scenario. Reports of hazardous  increasing renewableenergy in its grid, it taining a reliable charging network is a the socioeconomic disparities that working conditions,childlabour,corrup- capital-intensive process,and the costs could hinder EV adoption, ensuring tion, and geopolitical tensions prevail in generated Until the energy grid is decar- are often passed on to consumers. This that the transition benefits all strata of thedark underbelly ofcobaltmining.The bonised,the environmental advantageof compounds the already high upfront society. Else, EVs will be like Tesla for skyrocketing demand for these minerals EVs remains questionable. Worse, the cost of EVs compared to traditional ICE most Indians-aspirational. risks triggering resource scarcity and reliance on fossil fuels to charge EVs could vehicles. For example, a Tata Nexon EV A holistic strategy can help India "resource wars' as nations vie for eco- undermine efforts to combat climate costs around 15 lakh, while its petrol achieveits climate goals,and drivea sus- nomic power driven by fuel -- whoever change, making the transition less effec- variant ispriced at roughly half that. For tainable and equitable transportation controls the fuel gains power. tive than anticipated.An added problem a country where the average per capita ecosystem.The EVrevolution is a critical  Producing an EVissignificantlymore for India'slocal makingof EVis that China income remains low at 2.3 lakh, these pieceof thepuzzle,but itis not the whole energy-intensive than manufacturing a controls amajorityofthe essential miner- costscould make EVs inaccessible to the picture. To truly combat climate change traditional intemal combustion engine als, directly or indirectly. majority, leading to eventual snail- and build a sustainable future, India (ICE)vehicle.Astudybythe European Fed- The lifespan of batteries typically paced adoption rates. must embracea broader, more inclusive eration for Transport and Environment  ranges from eight to 15 years,afterwhich While personal EVs are a tempting vision of dlean mobility.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 Read to Lea. https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76555027

[Extracted from 53e2c7ad-b789-4ab9-be1e-466a8cdaa1a0.jpg]
FIRST CABINET MEETING IN NEW YEAR o Total allocations for Additional subsidy of 3,850 cr PMFBY & RWBCIS markete stuatio for FY22-26 raised for DAP to maintain retail prices. to 69,515 crore SANDIP DAS SAnDIP DAS Fertili? New Delhi, January 1 New Deihi, January 1 Modi says decisions dedicated to The union Cabinet on Wednes- The government On Wednes- enhancing prosperity of farmers day extended two crop insurance  day extendedadditional subsidy on schemes -- the Pradhan Mantri di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBy) and the beyond December 31, 2024,aimed PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA farmer sisters and brothers who Restructured Weather Based Crop  at helping mai ntain retail prices of Modisaid on Wednesday that the work hard to feed our nation.The Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS) -- by this key fertiliser at 1,350/abagof govemment's frst decision in the first Cabinet of 2025 is dedicated  one more yeartill 202 5-26 to align 50kg. Thiswill push up the fertiliser New Year is dedicated to farmers,  to enhancing prosperity for our their implementation with the subsidyby 3,850 crore in the cur- as the Union Cabinet headed by  farmers. I am glad that keydeci- 15th Finance Commission period. rent financial year. him enhanced allocation  sions have been taken in this The total outlay for PMFBY and "Farmers will continue to get to crop insurance . regard," the Prime Minister RWBCIS has been increased to DAPat 1,350 per 50-kgbag andthe scheme' and raised /'.  said ina post on socialmedia R69,515 crorefor2021-22to 2025- extra burden will be borne by the subsidy on a key fer-  platform 'x: 26,from266,550 croreforFY21-25. central government.One-time spe- tiliser. "The Cabinet decisionon The cabinet committee on eco- cial package up to 3,850 crore is "Ours is a govern. extendingthe one-time spe-  nomic affairs also created aseparate  approved for DAP fertiliser," infor- ment fully committed I cial package on di-ammo-  fund for innovation andtechnology mation and broadcasting minister to furtheringwelfare  nium phosphatewill help our (FIAT) of 824.77 crorefor technol- Ashwini Vaishnaw said in a press of farmers.  farmers by ensuring DAP  ogy infusion in the implementation  Information and broadcasting minister Ashwini Vaishnaw addresses the briefing. He pointed out that the We  are at affordable prices," Of these flagship schemes.  press after a meeting of the Cabinet in New Delhi on Wednesday AN global market prices of DAP are proud of  the Prime Minister "FIATwill help in the useoftech- volatile due to geopolitical concerns. all our! II added. I1d- nology for faster assessment of crop tlement beyond the stipulated  than 55% of farmers who are The government has stated that damage, claim settlement and  period under the PMFBY. enrolledunderthe cropinsurance are DAP imports were impacted due to lesser disputes.It will also help in Insurance claims of 21.7 lakh  those who had not availed loans from the Red Sea crisis since the begin- trade sources said that with the  demand of10-11 MT.*Inlastthree using digital technologies for easier crore have been paid to farmers  the banks in FY24,'the official said.  ningoftheyear,asshipsarererouted rise in global prices of DAP, such a  months, we have tried the longer enrolment and greater coverage,"  against 34,000 crore premiumpaid  and take an additional 6,500 km hike has become uneconomical. routes to ensureadequate supplyot  under PMFBY since its launch in Govt allows non-basmati through the Cape of Good Hope, information and broadcastingmin- Global prices of the soil nutrient, DAP although availability' is ister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the  2016, accordingto agriculture min- rice exports to Indonesia South Africa, thus taking an addi-  which is vital for the winter crops impacted, Rajat Kumar Mishra, press after the cabinet meeting.  istry data. Participationin PMFBY is tional14-45 days fora consignment during carly sowing stages, have secretary, the department of fer- The agriculture ministry said  optional for farmers. PMFBYis cur- The Cabinetapprovedtheexport  to reach Kandla port in Gujarat. surged in recent months. tiliser,had stated at national rabi the special fund will be utilised  rentlyimplemented in 23 statesand  of 1 mill ion tonne of non-basmati Earlier, in a bid to improve The fertiliser ministry has  conference while stressing micro- towards funding technological ini- Unionterritories. In FY24,enrolment  rice to Indonesia through Nationa!  availability, the fertiliser ministry  assessed 5.5 million tonne (MT) of management of supplies of non- tiatives as well as research and under PMFBYcrossed arecord 4 mil- Cooperative Export Ltd (NCEL). The  has offered an additional subsidy DAP usage for the forthcoming rabi  urea fertiliser. development studies.  lion,andit isprojectedtoincrease sig- export will be conducted under a of 3,500/tonne for DAP,or a spe- season,out of which 60% is being Industrysources told FEthat due Agriculture minister Shivraj  nificantly in the current fiscal. memorandum of understanding cial package costing 2,625 crore, imported from countries such as  to supply disruption in the Red Sea, Singh Chouhan said the insurance  An official said the cropinsurance between NCEL,India's cooperation to cover rising cost during April- Russia, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Jor-  landedcostof DAPin the countryhas companies will have to pay a.  scheme is gradually moving towards  ministry and the Indonesian gov- December 2024-25 to make the  dan, Egypt and China.The annual  increased by 26% from $510/tonne  penalty of 12% to farmers on the a subscription-based model rather er nment,agriculture minister hiv- price sustainable for companies for  domestic production of DAP is  in May to $645/tonne or around  claimsif there isa delay in claimset-. than a loan-based scheme. "More araj Singh Chouhan told reporters. procurement of DAP. However,  around 4.5-4.8 MT against a <54,000/ tonneat present. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 0.0 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76536847

[Extracted from 58a3283a-8103-446c-9214-0bed4e9619fa.jpg]
AMD, Intel target AI inferencing to rival Nvidia monopoly ACCORDIngtOKArAn Kir- are just some of the area. palani, chief product officerat where inferencing is set t Neysa, the growing promi- flourish. nence of inferencing could "Data is the fuel of genera significantly alter the compet- tive AI, but its training phast itivelandscape."AsAI becomes has limits,' said Arun Moral as pervasive as electricity or  managing director at Primu! the internet, inference work- Partners."Once we cross 5 tril loads across consumer and  lion data points,only syntheti. enterprise ecosystems will  data will remain,reducing th vastly outpace training" Kir-  scope for training. This make.  palani said. inferencing the "Thisshiftwill Applications like future growtl amplify the rey- . real-time traffic  driver forAl hard enueandinnova- analysis in cars or ware." tion opportuni- Gartner pro personalised ties associated recommendations jects that by with inference 2028, over 80% on smartphones are hardware" of workloac just some of the Intel, though accelerators ir still a minor areas where data centres wil player in the  inferencing is set to be dedicated toA GPU market, is  flourish inferencing,com leveraging' its pared to just 40% CPU expertise to in 2023. carve outa niche Nvidia is no in inferencing. Jeongku Choi, sitting idle. The company ha. research analyst at Counter- expanded its portfolio t  point Research,explained that indude ARM-based CPUs anc Intel and AMD can leverage optimised GPU platforms fo their power-efficient, cost- inferencing,signallingitscom effective hardware to chal-  mitment to maintaining dom lenge Nvidia in this space. inance in this segment. Unlike AI training, whichis "Inferencing is incredibly concentrated in data centres, complex' said Jensen Huang inferencingisexpected totake Nvidia'spresident and CEO." place closer to users on edge requires high accuracy, lov devices. These include smart- latency,and high throughpu phones,autonomousvehicles,  simultaneously, which make. and IoT systems.Applications it very challenging to buil like real-timetraffic analysisin efficient systems. But we ar cars or personalised recom- seeing significant growth ir  mendations on smartphones this area.' Thu, 02 January ? 0 FINANCIAL EXPRESS  Read to lead https://epaper.fir

[Extracted from 5b7e2cb3-8699-4bcf-b383-0cc7a57f79a7.jpg]
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 8, 2025 WWW.FINANCIALEXPRESS.COM 14 economy FINANCIALEXPRESS IE THInC SECOND EDITION: OUR CITIES 'Inequality, climate change to be big urban issues' SOCES give resources to the dluster thire three cities, you'll find that the loca! Omidyas network indi^ Hdng Ind bodies have one ortwo tcchnicaloffi- OUR cials, the rest are all like conservancy workers or class C and class Dwork- ers.If I don't build their capacities, TES how will I make them future cities? The cluster-based approach is impor- tant for them.  On the changing Omidyar Network india definition of urban India  On the traffic problem in  JAYA DHINDAW: Who do you  Bengaluru think is responsible for cities, sus- tainability and progress? We don't MN ANUCHETH: The vehicle exponential,whereas the infrastruc- urbanisation. When you're talking ture to cope with that growth is lin-  about 30 per cent urban,you're only car. Thereisalackofpublictransport (From left) Udit Misra, Associate Editor, The Indian Express; Jaya Dhindaw, Executive Program Director, Sustainable Cities And Director, WRl India Ross Center: MNAnucheth, Joint Commissioner of Police, Traffc, Bengaluru; Naresh V Narasimhan, Managing Partner, Venkataramanan Associates; Nithya Ramesh, Director of Urban Design, JNNu Urban Spacet boundary. in the last 15 years, over  andnotmany peopleuseit.Oneesti- mate says about 28 per cent of Ben-  150 per cent of the growth in most Foundation; MV Rajeev Gowda, Vice Chairperson, State institute For The Transformation ofKarnataka; Vivek Mittal, Executive Director, Deloitte india. galureans use public transport, ahigino anaddeg aey nn aaee whereas,in other cities like Mumbai  the last 20 years have we seen some  our cities are more focussed on spa- the municipal boundaries from In India, the pace ofurbanisationis Congress government launched the and Delhi, it's much higher.At least attention being paid to urban India.  way more rapid than whatthe policy tial planning.Most cities donot even where you're actually accounting for ShaktiScheme, which opened up  we can reach 50 per cent of people Mumbai has a population of 2.4  have the master plan orspatial plans.  the urbanised population. When systems can cope with. One ofthe  government bus travel for women using public transport.There are so crore. Bengaluru has a population of But now cities should move. challengesin Bengaluru is that we free ofcost. Suddenly there's so 1.2 crore, abouthalf.But Mumbaihas  many bottlenecks,our road dimen- much demand for public transport  around economic plan- tion in terms of numbers,  add practically as manyvehicles as  sions are not correct and footpaths  36 lakh private vehicles while Ben- ning.This does not neces- it's not rapid because city we add people. The traffic problem that the government is coming up  are inadequate or non-existent. We  galuru has1.1 crore privatevehidles.  sarily mean more indus- centres within municipal is because we didn't put inplacea  withinnovative methodsof are not promotingmobility. I thinkit's the worst cityin the world tries. It means creating  boundaries are actually What is the fastest,cheapest and public transport infrastructure  financing and expanding the bus  in termsofpeople-to-private vehicle opportunities for every- hollowing out; people are. ahead oftime. We've got two major fleet As that happers,you will start greenest mode of transport? Once ownership ratio,a vast majority of body, an infomal econ- moving outside those  metro lines, and once the network  tosee people shiftingfromusing you start thinking along those lines, vehicles being two-wheelers.The cars  boundaries.The growth is mV RAJEEV GOWDA kicks in, a rapid transformation will  personal vehicles to choosing public that into. consideration happening outside.  Bengaluru did nothavearobust pub-  adystopian output from acabal con- VICE CHAIRPERSON, SITK  happen. The Siddaramaiah-led transport.  andsay,wheredoesmycity Scan thc QRcodeto According to the World lic transport system. BMTC carries sistingoftransport planners,consul- goin the next 20- 30 years? watdi vidco  Bank, the socio-economic  tants, politicians and the bureau- Then all the policies built dimensions of the  the problem is that it has the same cracy.Architects and designers have  should now make India's outdoors as  out of your home - whether it's your . children should beable to go to foot-  around my spatial growth and my  definition of urban for India is number of buses in 2024 as it did in  almost no role to play. I'm not saying  good as our indoors. Everybody who footpath, sidewalk, the neighbour-  ball class without assistance and my  infrastructure growth can result in  around 57 per cent.If youlook at just 2000, which is 6,400. Public trans-  architects and designersare theonly has access to resources ives in good built patterns, it's over 60 per cent  long-term growth. port didn't keep pace with the  people required.You probably need  quality indoors. But the outdoors -  shop - is not given adequate impor- the market and buy their fruits. Eco- Each city has its own identityand  already. So the basic definition lies requirements of the day. Hence,there behavioural psychologists, econo-  public spaces, the quality of our  tance or funding. Cities grow and  nomic growth and job opportunities  the entire planning should move withwhat is urban.Whenit comes to  has been a tendency to go for private  mists and maybe poets to imagine  streets, the qualityof our attitudes  these places organically sprout need to be supported with a good  around that. Forexample,Bengaluru traffic, water,sewage, any service,it transport. Today, we have the  beautiful things. towards garbage - all that also needs  becauseofpeople's needs,but they're  quality of life which can come worked around the IT industry. The won't get provisioned for because  moniker of having the largest num-  to change.  through planning and design. By city has to move around that - what you're not recognising it as urban.In ber of private vehicles in India. We the fossil fuel era, models of the cen-  one of the important places they'll design,it's not justaesthetics,it's also kindoflabourwill behere? Whatkind Bengaluru, whenyou're buildingout- over took Delhi in January. tralbusiness district (CBD)and living On infrastructure-related  take you on the walking touris their  the engineering. Like amarket has to of jobs will be there? What kind of  in the suburbs.These are all stupid food market. Whereas our food mar- be well-it and ventilated If it's a fish infrastructure will be there? What blue-green  infrastructure issues in cities is On macro problems with. Western ideas, which were predicated  kets are smellyand not nice places to  market, it needs to have drainage so kind of support systems will be put encroached bybuilt-up because it's  upon the availability of endless  NITHYA RAM ESH: Our focus is Aan ny ony mnn ninn n iu!  urbanisation in India goto.  petrol, whichis going to run outin 15 on large infrastructure projects,  Alarge problem is recognising the doesn't overflow or smell. started a pilot projectofmaking eco- built in the wrong areas. Another  NA RESH V NARASIMHAN: All years. Before that, how arewe going nomic plans for four cities - Mumbai, the infrastructure that the govern- to move around? And no, electric However, there is not enough focus between buildings and not just  On cluster-based planning Surat, Varanasi and Visakhapatnam. govenment has made that a centra!  mentcanthinkofwhentheyhear the vehicles(EV)are notthe answerasyou  on urban design in most govem- streets. The second is looking at  If you see Indian urbanisation,it is agenda But climate action,environ- of cities word development or t affic mitiga- ments and bureaucracies. Urban  smallerinfrastructure toimprove the  not only about tier-one and tier-two mental resource securityand air qual-  tion is a flyover. The Indian political,  planningandtransportplanningare,  qualityoflife inyourneighbourhood. VIVEK MITTAL: Cities are  cities.Wehave around 100,000cities ity are not dlectoral agenda for any-  administrative,lawmaking and pol- but urban design is often not recog- If I have to create a compactcommu- engines of economic growth and  which have one lakh population. For body still ities need something like change.  icy systems have been hugely biased We've consistently eaten the  nised. The design of the outdoor nity, then I should be able to walk to  people come to cities insearch ofjobs economic development, we have to  $10 billion-$1 trillion in the next 10 towards rural development Onlyin green belt all around the city. We everything Ineed in15 minutes. My  space, the space as soon as you step and economic growth. As of now,all  years forinfrastructure growth.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76582089

[Extracted from 5bfaa385-4f2c-4162-843c-bd163f51cff6.jpg]
Big rockets, a telescope & big changes in space await in 2025 Some key events to tem before charting the unknown fron- Iook forward to in tier of interstellar space, the two space- craft are showing signs of age. space & astronomy Early in their journey, the pair swooped past Jupiter and Saturn,and Voyager 2 latervisited Uranusand Nep- MIChael ROston, KAtRina MILLER tune. But perhaps the mission's most tr iconic gift to the world was a photo UR SPECIES CALLED this taken of Earth,a tiny pixel against the latest 366-day journey expanse of space.In recent years, the around the sun "2024" robotic explorers have each blinked in and packed into it a ton and out of contact with NASA. Instru- of astronomical and ments on both spacecraft have been spaceflight excitement. shut down to conserve power. A solar eclipse crossed North Amer- But NASA isn't giving up on them  ica. Two robotic landers reached the yet. When they are eventually interred lunar surface, largely intact. The most in the space between the stars, it would powerful rocket booster ever built was 1 be an apt restingplace given how the caught by a pair of mechanical arms  duo has ventured where no otherspace- nicknamed "chopsticks.' A journey craft had gonebefore. began to Jupiter's icy ocean moon India's orbital objective Europa.And private astronauts con- ducted a daringspacewalk..  India is focusing on human space-  Can this revolution around the sun flight.A member of the nation's astro- we name"2025"compare? naut corps, Shubhanshu Shukla, is to. spend up to 14 days this spring aboard Jeff Bezos enters the arena the International Space Station during  The extraplanetaryambitions ofAma- a commercial mission with the com-  zon founder Jeff Bezos could present a  pany Axiom Space. Shukla and his fel- challenge to Elon Musk and SpaceX soon. low astronauts arehoping to be the first The space company started by Bezos, to launch to low Earthorbit on its home- Blue Origin, has a powerful rocket called grown rockets. India said in December New Glenn that may at last get off the The Dream Chaser, built by Sierra Space, undergoing testing at NASA's Neil that an orbital vehicle from that pro- ground in 202 5.Like SpaceX's Falcon 9, Armstrong Test Facility in Sandusky, Ohio.  gram, known as Gaganyaan, was being. NYt the booster stage is designed tobe fully  prepared for atest launch with no astro- reusable so it can fly again and again matter, which makes up a vast majority The first two, a pair of landers from the nauts aboard.A successful flight could and reduce the cost of launches. The of mass in the universe. With the largest American company Firefly Aerospace lead the way to a crewed Indian astro- rocket could launch national security digital camera in the world,scientists will  and the Japanese company Ispace, will  naut launch as early as 2026. satellites for the US military and space- use the Rubin Observatory to create a launch on the same SpaceX rocket as craft for NASA, including orbiters to  time-lapse motion picture of the South-  soon as mid-January. The mission by New milestones Mars and moon landers.Another thing ern sky. Such images would help Firefly will be the first trip of its Blue SpaceX could try to repeat the stun- New Glenn will carry is satellites for  researchers understand the nature of Amazon.The company's Project Kuiper  dark matter, as well as dark energy, the for byNASA The lunar trip by Ispace will Super Heavy booster. Itmay also attempt involves plans to build a mega-constel-  unknown force pushing the cosmos be its second attempt after the com- to catch the upper-stage Starshipvchicle  lation of satellites beaming internet apart. The trove of data will also help  pany's first lander crashed into the after it completes an orbit of Earth and down from space, in competition with  reveal the story of our galaxy's birth and  moon's surface in 2023. retums to the launch site in South Texas SpaceX's Starlink constellation Amazon catalogasteroids andcometsin our solar Later in theyear's first quarter,Intu- for the first time.SpaceX saidit was aim- also plans to launch Kuiper satellites system, including those that could slam itive Machines may try to put another ing for 25 launches of Starship in 2025 using rockets from many of Blue Ori-  into Earth one day. robotic lander on the moon after the asit prepares the spacecraftto land astro- gin's competitors, including United company's Odysseuslander reached the nautson themoonunder thecompany's Launch Alliance, Arianespace of France The moon, and Trump, come surface intact, but tilted over, last Feb- contract with NASA. Other new rockets and even SpaceX.  back around ruary. The company's second lander, and spacecraft maytake flight in 2025. During the first administration of named Athena, also will carry NASA- One is Neutron, a reusable rocket Rubin's first light  Donald Trump,American space policy financed instruments, induding a drill  being developed by Rocket Lab, which Astronomers atop a mountain in  refocused on lunar exploration. Biden's that will try to find samples of ice. was founded in New Zealand. The com- central Chile arewrappingup construc- administration sustained that direction. Athena will share a SpaceX launcher pany routinely carries satellites to orbit tion of the Vera C Rubin Observatory, But as Trump returns to the White with Lunar Trailblazer, a NASA orbiter aboard its small Electron rocket, and which might capture its first views of House, the country's existing space that will study water on the moon. could conduct a first flight of the new the night sky this year,as early as July 4.  plans could be upended.Altematively, vehidle from a launch site in Virginia. Vigils for Voyagers 1 and 2  Formerly the Large Synoptic Survey Trump could more radically shift NASA's Another is Dream Chaser,a space plane Telescope, the observatorywas renamed focus to sendingpeople to Mars. Voyagers 1 and 2, twin spacecraft built bySierra Space.After delays in 2024,  in 2020 to honourVera Rubin,who died For all that potential uncertainty, a that inspired a generation of cosmic the company hopes it will carry cargo to at 88 in 2016. Rubin's work persuaded series of robotic space missions are  wonderers,werelaunched in 1977.After the ISS for the first timethis year. astronomers of the existence of dark planned to the moon early in the year.  decades of exploring theouter solar sys- 1an- Sun, 05 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS Readtotad https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76561057

[Extracted from 6f49695e-0955-401b-933d-f820d08f3ebf.jpg]
MAHA KUMBH 2025 Bridging brands & beliefs oDigital and legacy firms are jostling to use the opportunity GEETIKA SRIVASTAVA SCHeDuLED FROm JAnUARy 13 to February 26 in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh, the Maha Kumbh 2025 is expected to draw a staggering 400 million devotees over 45 days. This year's gathering offers brands a once-in-12-years opportunity to connectwith a diverse audiences at both grassroots anddigital levels.As per estimates, brands are expected to splurge a mammoth 3,000 Crore during the weeks of festivities. This Kumbh holds special signifi- cance as this particular event occurs oncein 144 years,encompassing12 Puma Kumbh Melas" says Ashish Vohra, founder & CEO of Onora Hospitality, which is focusing on ments.Smaller players have usedthe religious tourism."We aimtolever- event to sample everyday essentials age it through two of our camp sites,  and have even partnered with local vendors for such services. Whiletra- crore over two months." ditional touchpoints remain rele- Many tech brands have also vant, this time around, the integra- seized the opportunity. Park+, for tion of digital tools is crucial to instance, is trying to sort some of maximise exposure,saymarketers. the logistical challenges,enhancing Despite the opportunity, reli- 1 gious marketing is not asimple task. 2025 It requires careful research, plan- dance, we expect over 2 5 lakh vehi- ning, anddemonstrating sensitivity cles to converge into Prayagraj. Devotees will be able to discover,  or alienating anyone. So what is the best way to secure parking spot on our app" grab eyeballs without appcaring to says Amit Lakhotia,cEO& founder. THE PRICE OF PRESENCE hard-sell? he company will introduce a Given the predisposition of the. FASTag-enabled parking manage- 400 million visitors,brands woulddo well to pri- ment system to accommodateup to  oritise their religious and cultural 50 lakh - 3 lakh vehicles and will also set up Size ofcaptive audience sensibilities while crafting their EVcharging stations. 1 crore campaigns. Hamidani advises For brands like PayNearby, the 3,000 crore+  focusing on storytelling rooted in captive audience offers the perfect Expenditure tradition, influencer tie-ups, and cohort for utility-driven engage-  required to gain  sustainableinitiatives.Authenticity Estimated expenditure by brands ment. Jayat ri Dasgupta, chief mar-  significant  and empathy are key to leaving a. keting officer,says the company is visibility lastingimpression. R5 lakh working to bring essential digital The thing to remember is that and financial services -- such as  oneshould not use thetools at your cash withdrawal, mobile recharge, Cost oftier-1 brand activation Source: Industry disposal to manipulate or coerce and ticket booking -- to the Mela. your customers into buying your We aim to connect with Bharaton products or services. In short, say a massive scale, ensuring essential sawy pilgrims are enabling app- show brands aiming for significant no to hard-selling. The way to go services reach everyone,'she notes. based services,influencer collabora- visibilitynceed to allocate 50 lakh to would be to use the platform to  As new-age brands jostle with tions, and immersive experiences." 1 crore over theeight-week period, support customers and their faith. legacy advertisers, experts say they while smaller campaigns can As Vaishal Dalal, co-founder & Changing rules are using every tool in the bookto  achieve targeted engagement with director of Excellent Publicity, puts grab attention. Yasin Hamidani, Marketing spends at the Maha  more modest budgets. it: "The Kumbh is a canvas for director of Media Care Brand Solu-  Kumbh can range from 5 lakh for. During previous Kumbh Melas,  innovation. From ground-level ini-  basicactivationsto severalcrores for larger brands led the procession,. tiatives to experiential marketing, On' physical branding. Today, multi-channel efforts, say experts. sponsoring rest areas or setting up.  the focus should remain on mean- enhanced infrastructure and tech-  Back-of-the-envelope calculations branded tents offering refresh- ingful associations"  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76569193

[Extracted from 6fc28423-e2b3-4cfa-a297-5a61ec1a101e.jpg]
RIL to build AI infra hub in 24 months, says Akash Ambani FE BUREAU Mumbai, January 2  AKASH AMBANI, DIRECTOR, RELIANCE iNDUSTRIES LIMITED  RELIANCE INDUSTRIES WILL build Al infrastructure in Jam- nagar within a record 24 The AI infrastructure that months, making the city the we have commenced work- global leader in this domain, ing upon in Jamnagar will said Akash Ambani, director at RIL, at an event commemorat-  make not only Jamnagar a  ing the 25 th anniversary of the leader in AI infrastructure, company's Jannagar Refinery. but will also place it Speaking at the event, Akash said: "The Al infrastruc- amongst the top ranked in ture that we have commenced the world working in Jamnagar will make notonly Jamnagar aleader inA! infrastructure, but will also place it amongstthe topranked in the world,"Ambani said. He said that they have On behalf of Isha, Anant already begun building the AI and myself, we commit  infrastructurein Jannagarand  aim to complete it in true Jam- to you that we will grow nagar style, within a record 24 our Reliance together months, as they have consis- tently done in the city. and make sure that "On behalf of Isha,Anant Jamnagar will always  and myself, we commit to you be the jewel of our that we will grow our Reliance Reliance family together and make sure that Jamnagar will always be the jewel of our Reliance family. like region that did not have and 1999, he and his highly What I want to also say, it is our goal in the new information roads,electricity, or even suffi- motivated teamwent on to cre- and technology age to make cient drinkingwater. Theyhad. ate an engineering marvel at. Jamnagar aleader ofthe world" warned that mobilising man- Jamnagar. The Jamnagar refin- he said. power, materials, technical erycomplex is home to some of  The company launched its experts and every other input the world's largest units, first refinery in Jamnagar on in such wilderness would including the Fluidised Cat- December 28, 1999,and com- require extraordinary efforts. alytic Cracker (Fcc), Coker, pleted 25 years on December Dhirubhai defied all the Alkylation, Paraxylene, 29 of last year.Leading world-  naysayers and went aheadwith  Polypropylene, Refinery Off- class project consultants his dream.He wanted to create Gas Cracker (ROGC), and Pet- advised Dhirubhai Ambani not just anindustrial plant but coke gasification plants. against investing in thedesert- a Nandanwan.Between 1996 (Input fromANI) Fri, 03 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS  Read to tead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/7654861

[Extracted from 7c47c547-c9f1-442a-96a1-af51fdec26cf.jpg]
lainer o Crop insurance o Why have several states dropped out?. schemeand SINCE THE PMFBY'S launch in 2016, for non-implementationof the six states -- Gujarat, Bihar, West Bengal,  scheme by these states,"according toa its outreach  Andhra Pradesh,Telangana, and  parliamentary panel report in 2021.  Jharkhand -- have opted out of the  Amongthese states,Andhra UnDer THe PMFBy, the farmers' scheme while Punjab,which declined  Pradesh decided to implement the sharein premium is capped at to join citing secured irrigation and  PMFBY from kharif 2022 season,and 2% of sum insured for kharif crops, low indemnitylevel,approved it for  last yearTelangana and Jharkhand 1.5% for rabi crops, and 5% for horticultural crops.States have dropped rejoined it. States such asAndhra commercial or horticultural crops. out of implementing cropinsurance Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, A few states have further waived off schemes because of risk perception and Meghalaya, and Puducherry have  financial or budgetary const raints.  opted foruniversalisation of the crop the farmers'shareof premium due. to which there is very little burden "The financial constraints of the state insurance scheme, where the state governmentsand low claim ratio during government bears the cost of on growers. The balance premium  SAFEGUARD normal seasons are the majorreasons farmers'premiums. isequally shared between the Centre and states. FOR FARMERS For the Northeast,the premium issplit in a 9:1 ratio between the o What are o Challenges in Centre and states. However, due to the  scheme being voluntary and low gross Why Centre has 1.7lakhcr the financial implementation croppedareain the region, flexibility has been allowed to avoid surrender implications?  Sinceit's Launch, the PMFBYwas of funds and for reallocationin CLAIMS PAID TO otherdevelopment projectsand extended crop cover FARMERS SINCE  compulsory for farmers who take aloan THE TOTAL FINANCIAL outlay forboth  from any financial institution,and schemesthat require funds.In FY24,  PMFBYWAS the schemes have been increased to  voluntary fornon-loanee farmers. enrolment under the PMFBY crossed LAUNCHED 269,515crorefor2021-22 to2025-  But since 2020 kharif, it has become a record 40 million; 55% ofthem are  IN 2016 26,from 66, 550crore for FY21to voluntary forall farmers. There are long non-loanee ones or those who have. The Centre has extended the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima.  not availed any crop loan from banks. FY25.The finance ministryhas  Yojana (PMFBY) and the Restructured Weather Based Crop IN Fy24, ENrOLmENt allocated 215,000 crore for FY25, The coverage of the scheme was  paid to farmers. Yield-related disputes, 60 million hectare, which is 39% of  UNDER PMFBY while the revised estimate for FY24  delayedtransmission of yield data,and  delays by state govemments in releasing the grosscroppedareaof 23 states Crossed arecord stands at <14,600crore. In FY23,the  and UnionTerritories that are  with the 15th Finance Commission period.Sandip Das govemment's expenditure oncrop  their share of premium subsidyare the 40 MILLION; 55%  implementingitthrough 20 public insurance was <10, 296crore as many major reasons for protracted settlement Of them are explains the move, and the issues States had dropped out. With the.  of daims. The Centre has decided to and private sector companies.  NON-LOANEE approval of funding till FY26,  release its share of premium subsidy in FARMERS agriculture minister Shivraj Singh  advance bydelinkingit from the release Chouhanhas said the cropinsurance . of states'share in payment. For faster o Impact in terms of protecting farmers against crop loss 69515cr schemewould continue beyond FY26.  assessment,claim settlement, and According to officials, as several states reducing disputes,the cabinet has THE PMFBY, INTRODUCED in the 2016  insurance against crop damage dueto  against whichclaims of 1.7lakh crore  FINANCIAL OUTLAY  are in talks withthe agriculture  approvedthe creation ofa 824-crore  natural risks, and in areas notified by state have bcen paid to them."For cvery < 100of minist ry to join t he scheme,require-  fund for innovation and technology for kharif season,is a yield index-based plan, FOR PMFBY & RWBCIS ensuring tech infusion Underthis fund, whereas the RwBCIS,started alongside,is governments Officials said despite being  premium paid by farmers,they have recei- FOR FY22-26,  ments for higher financial allocation voluntary,it is moving to a subscription- ved about 500as claims,'anagriculture based onweatherindices.The basic differ- may be met in the next few years. The  weatherinformation and network data FROM R66,550 CR ence betweenthe two is the methodology based model from a loan-based scheme. systems,and yield estimation system  ministry note said.Among farmers who flagshipschemewill continueas forcalculating admissible daimsof FOR FY21-25 Since its launch, farmers have paid have accessed the crop insurancescheme, farmers are often facingweather  using technology, which deploys remote farmers.The PM FBY offers comprehensive  34,000 crore as their share of premium, 88% are small and medium land-holders.  related challenges,officials said. sensing, arebeing setup.  financialexp.enapr.in. Fri, 03 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76546739

[Extracted from 7cf88c93-a840-4b84-bd44-b99647fbe5d4.jpg]
Govt cuts jet fuel price by 1.5%, commercial LPG byR14.5/cylinder Press Trust OF InDIA MONTHLY REVISION New Delhi, Janvary 1 THE PRICE OF jet fuel, or ATF, on Wednesday was reduced by 1.5% and the rateof commercial LPG that is used in hotels and restaurants was cut by14.5 per 19-kgcylinder inthe  monthly revision done in line with benchmark international prices. ATF prices for domestic airlines The aviation turbine fuel (ATF) (/kilolitre) pricewasreducedby1,401.37per Applicable from January 1, 2025 kilolitre, or1.52%,to <90,455.47in the national capital -- home to one METRO PRICES of the busiest airports -according Delhi 90,455.47. to state-owned fuel retailers. The rate cut follows two rounds Kolkata 93,059.79 of monthly increases. Prices were increasedby22,941.5 perkl(3.3%) Mumbai 84,511.93 on November 1, and by 21,318.12 Chennai 93,670.72 per k (1.45%) on December 1, 2024.The ATF pricein Mumbai has  A19-kg commercial cylinder been reduced to 84,511.93 from now costs 1,804 in Delhi, 85,861.02 per kl previously.  Oil firms also reduced the price R1,756 in Mumbai, 1,911 in Kolkata, and 1,966 in Chennai of commercial LPG by R14.5 to <1,804 per 19-kg cylinder in the  Domestic cooking gas rate nationalcapital This the first reduc- remains unchanged tion after fifth straight monthly hikes in commercial LPG price. Rates were hiked by 16.5 per 19- gas used in domestic households, kg cylinder at the last revision on however, remained unchanged at December 1. In five price increases, 803 per 14.2-kgcylinder. commercial LPG rates had been State-owned Indian Oil Corpo- hikedby172.5 per19-kgcylinder. ration (IOc), Bharat Petroleum Commercial LPG now costs Corporation Ltd (BPCL), and Hin. R1,756per19-kgcylinderin Mum- dustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd bai, <1,911 in Kolkata, and 21,966 (HPCL) revise prices of ATF and in Chennai. Prices ofATF and LPG cooking gas on the first of every  differ fromstate to state depending  month based on the average price on the incidence of local taxes of benchmark international fuel . including VAT. The rate of cooking  and foreign exchange rate. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025  read to Lead https://epaper.financialex

[Extracted from 84ef10f9-9049-4228-bac4-a25abdfbaa4b.jpg]
Fadnavis expands Maharashtra cabinet with 39 new ministers SUDHIR SURYAWANSHI @Mumbal Ceremony held at MAHARASHTRA Chief Minis Nagpur's Raj Bhavan ter Devendra Fadnavis on Sun- The ceremony at the Raj day effected the first expansion Bhavan In Nagpur was the of his ministry with 33 Cabinet first to be held in the state's ministers and six ministers of second capital in 33 years. state. Governor C P Rad. The last such event was hakrishnan administered the Sudhakarrao Naik cabinet's oath to all 39 ministers, many expanslon in 1991 of them fresh faces, at the Raj Bhavan in Nagpur on the eve of Maharashtra state assembly's of berths. Shiv Sena MLA winter session. Portfolios will Narendra Bhondekar resigned be allocated in the next two to from all party posts after he three days, Fadnavis said. was denied a berth in the new Among the newly sworn-in cabinet. Shiv Sena ministers ministers, 19 are from the BJP Maharashtra Governor C P Radhakrishnan. Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, Deputy include Sanjay Rathod, Uday (16 cabinet berths and 3 MoS); CMs Ajit Pawar and Eknath Shinde during the swearing-in of cabinet ministers |PT1 Samant, Sanjay Shirsat, Pratap 11 from the Shiv Sena (9 cabinet Sarnaik, Bharat Gogawale. and 2 MoS); and 9 from NCP (8 van; NCP leaders Chhagan Akash Fundkar, Madhuri Mis- Prakash Abitkar, Ashish cabinet ministers and 1 MoS). Bhujbal, Dilip Walse Patil, Anil al, Pankaj Bhoyar, and Megh. Jaiswal, and Yogesh Kadam. With this, the BJP has 20 Patil, and Dharmaraobaba At-  na Bordikar Sakore. A senior BJP leader said the ministers including CM Deven- ram; and Shiv Sena leaders Meanwhile, Ajit Pawar de- party has tried to keep the del. dra Fadnavis, Shiv Sena has 12 Tanaji Sawant and Deepak nied berths to veterans Chha- icate balance of caste and re. including deputy CM Eknath Kesarkar. gan Bhujbal and Dilip Walse gional representation in the Shinde, and NCP 11 indluding While focusing on fresh fac- Patil to accommodate Dhanan-. new cabinet. "Each section of deputy CM Ajit Pawar. es, Fadnavis also included some. jay Munde, Dattatray Bha-. the society voted for us. There Notably, 12 ministers from experienced hands in his team. rane, Aditi Tatkare, Manikrao. fore, we wanted to give repre. the Shinde-led government Among the young BJP minis- Kokate, Narhari Zirwal, Maka-  sentatives to each section even. were dropped to give represen- ters are Jaykumar Rawal, Pan- rand Patil, Babasaheb Patil,. if the faces from these socie- tation to young leaders. Those kaja Munde, Ashok Uike, Ash- and Indranil Naik. ties were new. This is a new dropped include BJP leaders ish Shelar, Shivendrasinh As for Eknath Shinde, he had team under new leadership Sudhir Mungantiwar, Vijay Ku- Bhosale, Jaykumar Gore, San- a tough task to keep each one and we are hopeful that they mar Gavit, and Ravindra Cha- jay Savkare, Nitesh Rane, happy with a limited number will perform better," he said. Mon, 16 December 2024 NDIAN ENPRESS https://epaper.newindianexpress.com/c/76432668

[Extracted from 84f154d9-3bf2-46b2-95de-8ca87f5b4660.jpg]
Dec manufacturing PMI slips to 56.4, weakest in 2024 FE BUREAU FACTORY ACTIVITY New Delhi, January 2 EXPANSION IN MANUFACTURING activity in the country slowed in December, amid softer demand conditions and price pressures. According to S&P Global, the HSBC India Manufacturing PMI fell to a 12-monthlowof 56.4 in December from 56.5 the previous month. "December data showed the sec- Manufacturing PMI tor improving to the least extent in 2024, amid softer increases in out-  Jan  56.5 put, new orders and stocks of pur- Feb  56.9 chases,' S&P Global saidonThursday. Mar Cost pressures receded and were 59.1 mild, but charge inflation remained Apr 58:8 historically high, it said. Ines Lam, May 57.5 economist, HSBC,said,"India's man- ufacturing activity ended a strong 4 Jun 58:3 2024 with a soft note amidst more 58.1 signs of a slowingtrend,albeit mod- erate,in theindustrial sector.Therate Aug 57.5 of expansion in new orders was the. Sep 56.5 slowestinthe year,suggestingweaker growth in future production." 1.57.5 The weaker PMI print belies Nov 56.5 expectation of a strong recoveryin industrial activity and demand con- -Dec J56.4  ditions inH2.The finance ministryin Source: PMI by S&P Gobal; Note: its latest'Monthly Economic Review'  Reading below 50 suggests contraction & above it indicates expansion had said industrialactivityis likelyto "gain traction' in the second half of FY25,andhadhighlightedthatthere  over all expenses.Having eased since are signs ofcapital formation growth  the previous month,the rate of input rebounding during theperiod. price inflation was moderate by his-  S&P Global said that qualitative torical standards,'said S&P Global. Selling prices rose in December to a data suggested that growth was ham- peredbycompetitionandpricepres- greaterextentthan costburdens,and sures in December.Similarly, factory  one that was stronger than seen on output rose at asubstantialpace that  average inthe near20-yearserieshis- was nevertheless the slowest in 2024.  tory.Anecdotalevidence showed that Although new export sales rose at  demand resilience supported pricing aslowerrate than total newbusiness, power, the ratings agency said. the pace of growth for the former  Looking to 2025, Indian manu- strengthened as fims were able to facturers were confident of a rise in secure intemational orders from output."Optimism reflectedadver- across the globe, S&PGlobal said. tising, investment and expectation  Meanwhile,withcontainer,mate- of favourable demand. Sentiment rialandlabourcosts reportedlyrising was nevertheless curbed by con- since November,Indianmanufactur- cernsaround inflation andcompet- ers registered another increase in itive pressures,"said S&PGlobal. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 0. Read to Lead https://epaper.financialex

[Extracted from 88488777-d19a-4894-bf0c-a441b2bb266e.jpg]
1ow, and is a sharp decline from the 8.2% growth in FY24. The advance. estimates number will surely be achieved as growth in the second half of the fiscal year can be expected to easily clock a growth of 6.7%. But the headwinds could strengthen beyond that. Ifwe have toavoid another dis- appointment in FY26, some immediate measures need to be taken to resuscitate demand. While private final consumption expenditure is tippedto growat 7% -- agood level on the face of it -- it is on avery weak base of only 4% in FY24. The fact is that consumption may have been resilient at the top end fora range ofpremiumgoods,butthere is clearlyvery limited purchasing power with middle- and lower-income households. Tobringrelief tosmall enter- prisesand give their businessesa leg-up, the central bank must shift its pri- orities and cut interest rates by a chunky 100 basis points in the next six months. That could cheer the sentiment and boost retail credit which has  moderated sharply. To revive the credit impulse, the Reserve Bank of India  must ensure liquidity remains abundant, enablinglenders to mop up cheaperdeposits.Without some succour for small units andmiddle-income and lower middle-income households,it will be hard to revive demand. The trade,hotels, transport, andcommunications segment is estimated to grow at only 5.8% in the current year, the slowest pace in six years. This. sector generates employment in large numbers and the sluggish perfor-  mance probably explains the slow job creation in the country. In general, the lack ofjobopportunities is worrying.Areport by FICCI-Quess Corp has found that the compound annual growth rate in wages,across six sectors, was just 0.8-5.4% in the 2019-202 3 period. This was low not simply in. absolute terms but also didnot cover for the 5.7%annual average inflation. The increase in personshiredby aclutch of 1,196 firms fell to 1.5% in FY24  from 5.7% in FY23,revealing how companies are cutting back on hiring. To be sure, manyare opting to hire on contract but it doesn't seem like the numbers are very large.  Real rural wages havebeen negative for a long time. Demand forwork under the government's rural employment guarantee scheme was at a four-month high in December, suggesting the rural recovery is not as strong as is believed. The lack of visibilityin demand is apparently hold- ing back further investments by the private sector. While companies are formation, expected to grow at 6.4% this year, could have been better. While the private sector must definitely commit more capital and hire  more, the government should up spending meaningfully -- at least by 10%annually-- fora couple ofyears.Asimprudent asit may sound,alit- tle bit of pump priming is called for to ensure the economy doesn't lose. any more momentum. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025. @0 read to Lead https://epaper:financialexpress.con.

[Extracted from 89d9f132-e9e3-4a9f-96e2-1e63e656acb2.jpg]
Foreign flows into govt bonds to come off record highs DHARAMRAJ DHUTIA 1.24 lakh crore of Indian bonds Currency weakness can temper Mumbai, January 1. under the so-called fully accessible Bond yields end higher in year's first session the momentum of bond inflows, route in 2024, dearing house. especially in case of persistent Foreign Flows Into govern-  data showed. Most bonds under the depreciation pressure, Dhiraj Nim, 10-year govt bond yield BOND YIELDS ENDED higher ment bonds are set to decline in route, which allows unfettered for-. an economist and FX ratesstrategist in the first trading session of 2025, after spiking to a record high eign investment,arepart of JPMor- Intra-day (%), Jan 1, 2025 at ANZ, said. 2025 due to mild concerns in 2024 as the debt got added to  gan's index. Inflows will continue but at"an over heavy borrowings in the !PMorgan's emerging market debt Despite the optimistic outlook, erratic and less enthusiastic pace"  January-March quarter, though index, investors said.. inflation expectations and policy as the bonds are still relatively underlying investor sentiment Interest rate trajectoriesin India  adjustments as well as global market attractive, Nim said.. remains upbeat. The 10-year and the US and moves in the rupee fluctuations could affect capital  Radhika Rao,executive director 6.78 bond yield ended at 6.7813%, will influence the pace of flows, flows, BNP Paribas'Li said.*Therefore, and senior economist at DBS Bank, Close they said. investors should remaincautious and against its previous close 6.77  sees a gradual pick-up in passive "For 2025,foreign inflows into closely monitor market dynamics.' Lj open of 6.7597%. B$ quoo?  -REuTERS monthly inflows as Indian bonds the Indian government bond mar- Investors expect rate cuts in get added by two more index ket are expected to remain strong India to kick off from February but providers thisyear. but may not match the record levels worry that the easingcyclecould be How the rupee moves will also  The rupee dropped 2.8%in2024, She expects the local central a shallow one. sway foreign investors, with the dol-  bank to cut rates by 25 basis points of 2024,' said Wei Li, head of multi- and hit a recordlow of 85.8075 on asset investments at BNP Paribas. The US Federal Reserve has larset to rise moreas DonaldTrump December 27,while the benchmark.  in February,and by atotal of 75 basis Overseas investors net bought alreadyprojected fewercuts for 2025. takes charge as the USpresident. bondyield fell 42 basispoints. pointsin the cyde. ReutERS  financialexp.epaprin>OOOO Coooo c0000 FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 00 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76542474 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 8a0a89d0-752a-4ddf-bcae-dbb9d06c0dab.jpg]
'Climate change mitigation needs funding' At the fourth edition of the IE Thinc: CITIES series, presented by The Indian Express with Omidyar Network India and moderated by Amitabh Sinha,  Editor (Climate and Science),panellists discussed how municipal bodies can leverage capital markets to solve climate-related problems  On everyday  On climate projects Las tly, municipali ties like Vadodara,funding these pro- While capital is available,the  challenges Yu.. Shekhar Singh: There are As per the Climate Risk Guwahati face significant chal-  jects is crucial.Some projects cane challenge lies in the creditwor- Abhay Kantak: Urban devel- thirc Index 2021, India was the thiness of cities.Investors need  lenges, such as groundwater bedelayedbut manycannot. ture projects. One focusses on seventh most vuInerable. scarcity and flash floods, com- de ans aan dannaan adn opment,asperthe Constitution, OUR is a state subject and every state  makingexistinginfrastructure country to climate change. On investments audited accounts and robust rev-  Shilpa Kumar Indiancities government has a structure to A total of 21 of the 30 most over key resources like roads, enue streams,to lowerthe barri- follow. So, all municipal corpo- sewage treatment plants (STPs) polluted cities around the which are often managed by have beenmajor contributorsto  ers to investment in municipal rations in the country are not and water treatment plants, world are in India. Other agencies. bonds. Beyond this, there are  the same. In Maharashtra and  which are vulnerable to climate In the last fewyears,there  people in search of livelihoods.  global pools of financeavailable On civic amenities Gujarat,municipal corporations  change impacts like extreme  have been multiple in- Cities are notjusteconomic hubs for cities to address climate mit- provide all kinds of services -- .Omidyar network india rainfall. The second involves Keynote speaker stances of flash floods, Santosh Tiwari From but alsoplaces where people seek  igation and adaptation projects, water, waste water and solid wildfires and the impactof :  birth to death, ULBs (Urban to build their lives. ASHWANI BHATIA  suchasrejuvenating waste management, hospitals help combat climate change,  pollution and heat waves. Local Bodies) play a crucial role. At a macro level, Whole time member, seb! and education.They also have a tion and monitor energy con- Birth, death,and even marriage cities are vital for building green discretionaryservice called pub-  sumption and,by extension,the  ment, which includes cleaning economic growth, spaces. lic transport Sosome cities also green house effect?  rivers and upgrading STPs. For been progressive in its  performance indicators (KPIs) ULBs. Beyond these, ULBs while at a micro However,access -  providethe city bus services.  Ideally, municipal revenues . instance, in Pimpri-Chinch- approach, designing frame- essential for sustainability. ensure access to clean drinking  level, the qualityof This is not true for all corpo- wad, the Pavna riverfront works to promote this, but Without this, bilateral transac- water, manage sewage and  life is shapedby city requires overcom- rations. The Bruhat Bengaluru  maintain transportation sys- GDP, but are currently at 0.9- development alone .costs  nunicipalities oftenneed guid-  tions may allow for compla- governance. From  ing technical barri- Mahanagara Palike just provides 1%. Moving to 2% is achiev- ance. They have their challenges. cency, with less focus on neces-  air quality to access  ers,including meet- around 21,400 crore.Another tems. However, the demands solid waste management, elec- able. Property tax, currently at initiative, the 15-minute  and financeisonlyone aspectof  saryparameters. have increased. Today, ULBs  to parks and clean  Scan the QR code to ing specific tricity and roads. How do you 0.15% of GDP, should'be neighbourhood concept, their responsibilities. We are Capital markets also help must provide treated, potable water, city govern- watch video conditions and  manage and dispose of your encourages .. walking  proudto haveworked with three  municipalities streamline their water,requiring multiple levels  ments playacritical  aligning  projects  and wastetoaddress climate dhange? reflects the vibrancy of a city's  cycling for daily tasks.The Harit  municipalitieslast year and con-  operations. Many. have of treatment. Discharging  role in managing the scale of with overall city plans. Cities like Mumbai provide bus administration.Profession tax, Setu project for this concept tinue to be involved withothers.  improved their financial prac- untreated sewage is no longer urban living. However, Indian Capacity building is crucial services, so converting them to capped at 2,400 since the costs 2200 crore, with green While bank, multi-latera! and tices just by preparing to enter acceptable,and tertiary treat- cities face immense challenges, forcitiest tapin to both munic electric vehicles is a challenge.  1980s, should increase, as sug-  bonds funding these projects.  bilateral loans are available for these markets. For example, ment, mandated by the NGT,  ipal bonds and global finance, One of the largest emitters of gested by the 14th Finance  funding,capital markets offer Guwahati Municipal Corpora- requiressubstantial funding. scale of their populations and  especially for adaptation pro-  On climate financing Commission. Cities also need tion, despite using cash-based greenhouse gases are buildings. unique benefits. For instance, limited resources.Manycity gov-  jects, which are often smaller Howdoyou create Development  consumption-linked taxes like Arnab Choudhury: We when undertaking green pro- accounting,is workingtoadopt  infrastructure like bridges,fly. ernments sruggle with inade- and more complex to assess. Control Regulations codes that  octroi, which was replaced by jects, capital markets enforce work as margin bankers,helping overs, ROBs (road overbridges) quate revenues, often generat-  Pooling projects and breaking will promote green buildings, inadequate . compensation,  municipalities prepare to tap discipline by requiring munici-  part of its preparation for mar- and FOBs (foot overbridges) to ingless than 50% of what they  down these barriers is key to reduce the impact of construc- hurting municipal income. into capital markets. sEBI has  palities to maintain specific key ket readiness.  meet growing urban needs. For  need annually. Fri, 03 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76546213 (c.:)

[Extracted from 8bfa8d81-0960-49dc-8d2a-f62555ea36aa.jpg]
Unlisted shares on a high with rising investorinterest  SURENDER NEGIE THE OTHEr SIDE New Delhi, January 3 WITH INTEREST IN the unlisted space growing, several smaller firms are deploying innovative waysto tap smallinvestors. These include bench- marks to track the direction of the space,like the Sensex and the Nifty, andlow-ticket investmentvalue. There are atleast two benchmarks forthe unlisted space,first ofwhich is Primex 40 live by a company called Wealth Wisdom Indiawith 40 stodks in its Primex 40 3,794.32 Index,Asperinformationavailable on  Jan 3, 2025 its website,the indexwaslaunchedin 2023witha baseof10,000andis cur- 2,029.36 rently at 3,794, a 2.27x appreciation in about 19 months.The firm claims  Jan 1, 2024 thattheindexis the country's firstlive private market index,with real-time prices of the shares.Some of the well- known names in the index include Boat, Capgemini, NSE India,TataCap- ital,and PharmEasy. The weightage of the stocks in the basket is capped at  and therefore does not require any 10% to prevent excessive concentra-  licence from Sebi/RBI or regulatory tionand promote diversification. authority in India. Investors are  Another such indexis Sharecart advised to use the data at their own Private Market Index,whichstarted risks,its website states. with a base of 1,000 around 2022  Markets regulator Sebi, which and is currently at 1,592. Stocks  has been proactively keeping a tab such as NSDL, Oyo, Chennai Super  on the space, said in December that Kings and Bira are available for "such activities (transaction in trade onthe platform. unlisted shares) are in violation of Both these indices hit their life- Securities Contract (Regulation)Act, time highs during this week. Primex 1956,and Sebi Act, 1992 which are, 40 Index clocked over 80% returns  inter alia,laws designed to regulate last year, while for Sharescart, it was and protect the interest of investors nearly4 0%. In comparison, the Sen- in securities markets". sex and the Nifty posted returns of These mompanies are also offering 8.17% and 8.8%, respectively. smaller ticket-sized investmentsin a According to a recent report, bid toget more retail customers com- monthly trading volumes for  pared to some ofthe well-knownbro unlisted shares grew up to 6x from kerages whichoffer unlisted services. $50-60million in 2023 to$300 mil- While HDFC Securities requires a lion in2024.However,those tryingto  minimum investment of  25 lakh make a quick buck in the unlisted for unlisted shares,Axis Directneeds space should be waryofthepitfallsas 5 lakh, and ICICI 50,000. For the space isunregulated. smallerfirms,itis muchlower. In fact. "Sharescart is not an investment Incred Money allows to invest in a advisory portal and does not make  single share in select stocks like the anyinvestment recommendations CSK,trading at R197 on Friday. Sat, 04 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialex Read to Leadd

[Extracted from 8ce9daea-9e29-4e62-8a96-cc0f79b24594.jpg]
STRATEGIC ALLIANCES WITH GLOBAL BHARATIYAS A boost to Act East policy  SUBRATTRIPATHY THE 18TH PRAVASI Bharatiya Divas (PBD) convention, to be held in Bhubaneswar from January 8-10, perhaps gives us an opportune  moment to look at the Indian dias- Odisha can unlock its vast  pora and evaluate its true potential in metals and iron and steel. In newer  potential in industries such as  giving shape to the Prime Minister's and more challenging segments like manufacturing, logistics, and dreamofa Viksit Bharat. semiconductors, EVs,AI, and renew- Estimated to be the world's tourism, propelling the state able energytoo,it can helpIndia grab largest, the Indian diaspora with towards a prosperous and the right investments. In this, global 35.42 million people residingoutside  sustainable future Indians have an important role to India as of November 2024 includes play.The perception about India has 15.85million NRIsand19.57million changed,more soin thelastfewyears. PIOs. It has asignificant impact on tribution to a Viksit Bharat, the PBD The China-plus-one strategy that India's. economy, contributing convention is expected to witness  promises to transform India into a around 3.5% of the country's GDP 7,500 participants,incuding NRIs  manufacturer for the global markets through remittances. In 2023, India  from over 5O countries.The Pravasi  is one ofthe primary reasons prompt- retained the top spot with remit- Bharatiya Samman Awards will be  ing many foreigners to look at fruit- tances of $120 billion, nearly two conferred bythe President. ful work stints in India. times ahead of Mexico ($66 bn) and While it is important to drum up China($50bn). Act East  noise onthe inflowoffunds,we would  Remittances are critical for any do well to look beyond finance.The  Finally, the PBD convention aligns  country since theyhelp cushion the first step would be to identify the with India's'Act East Policy'aimed at adverse impact of any fall in FDI and qualities and traits that we need to fosteringeconomic andculturalties higher trade deficit. For India too,the harness and imbibe from these suc- with Southeast Asia. In many ways,  steady flow of remittances has been cessful people. Once we engage with Bhubaneswar provides the perfect  hugely beneficial and it is estimated themtoenlist the skills thatsetthem  backdropfor the grandevent. Rich in to top$124 billion in 2024and$129  apartand contribute to their success, natural resources,Odisha's strategic  billionin 2025. wecanrequestthem for guidance and coastal location and its growing Apart from the sheer numbers,  mentorship in developing a training  prominence as a metal & mining whatalsoworks in India's favouristhe  programme and impart the required hotspot,tourismhub, itsport-based diverse composition of these remit- expertise to aspiringyouth and tal-  infrastructurehas generateda lotof tance inflows, which is predicted to ented entrepreneurs. Transferring enthusiasm.  provide steadiness incase ofeconomic  new knowledge and skill, leadership With its natural deepwater ports, downturns.The US, the UK, and Sin- training, sharingof experiences, cre-  induding Paradip, Dhamra, and  gapore,which collectively account for ating new businesses, and spurring Gopalpur,Odishais poised toemerge 36% oftotal remittance flows,are the entrepreneurship would be some of as amajormaritimehub,drivingeco-  primarydestinations forhighly skilled the notable benefits from these nomic growth, generating employ- Indian migrants inthe IT and services  exchanges. ment,and boostingtrade. Byleverag. industries. The UAE accounted for Such conventions also offer net-  ing its port infra, Odisha can unlock 18% of remittance flows,while Saudi  workingopportunitiesto the indian  itsvastpotentialinindustries suchas Arabia, Kuwait, Oman,and Qatar,col- community across the world. We manufacturing, logistics, and lectivelyacounted for11% ofIndia's  need to ensure how India gains from  tourism,propellingthe state towards total remittances. The diversification  these interactions, leverage their  a prosperous and sustainable future. of India's migrant pool, between a  goodwillandprofessional networkto This needs to betransfomed into  large chunkof highly skilled migrants work out deals in India's favour. Dias- action on the ground. No wonder, working in high-income OEC D mar-  pora can help act as valu able bridges  chief minister Mohan Charan Majhi  kets and less skilled migrants in the betweentheiradoptedcountries and called it a pivotal moment in the GCC markets, could impart stability homelands, facilitating strategic state's journeyto become a hub for to remittance inflows in the event of connections. global investment and cultural externalshocks.  The Global Indian connection in exchange.LetOdishashowthe way! large corporations has been reaping (The author is president, Leveraging connections benefits for India, whether in con- business dcuclopment,  Based on the theme'Diaspora's Con-  sumer space or in core industrieslike Adani Group) Wed, 08 January 2025 FINAnCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76583908 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 90b9d927-a9a9-4884-b08e-9e210b439adc.jpg]
ACROSsTHE AISLE PChidambaram The present generation (born after 1991)  scarcely believes that there was an India with  one television channel, one car, one airline, one telephone service  provider, trunk calls, PCO/STD/ISD booths  and long waiting lists for everything from two-wheelers to train Few people realise that without Dr Manmohan Singh's unequivocal support the major signature programmes ofthe UPA tickets to passports. EXPRE SS ARCHVES: ROHIT JAN PArAs The seeds of change were Dr Manmohan sowed by Dr Singh, a fact belatedly acknowledged by Prime Minister Modi's tribute to him and the. Singh, RIP Cabinet resolution  Dr mAnmOhAN SIngH, 92, passed away  on Thursday, December 26, 2024.A con- emissary hehad deployed.  welfare programmes. Dr Singh was an Although sceptical, I bounded off to  abandon the deal. I saw force in his point instinctive reformer but consciously  day he was sworn in as finance minister North Block and was ushered in.It was my but encouraged him to explore support  leaned in favour of the poor. He was a (June 21, 1991) came to an end. first official meeting with the FM.I con- from other parties. In a master stroke, Dr Strong votaryof welfare programmesthat Singh persuaded the former President,  had multiple externalities.He taught us Manmohan Singh, in his ownwords, veyed the request, not a direction, of the was an 'accidental' finance minister.  prime minister. Dr Singh was puzzled -- I Abdul Kalam, to ssuea statement of sup- that economic refoms could go hand-in-  Narasimha Rao's first choice as finance  couldsee thaton his face--bythe message- port,and used the statement towin the hand with generous welfare measures.I minister was IG Patel,a respected acade-  or, perhaps, the messenger. He listened.  Support of Mulayam Singh Yadav and the  also firmly believe that Dr Singh's policies mic and economist. Patel declined,and  politely and told me that the second step Samajwadi party. The bluf ofthe Left par-  createdthe present middle class. suggested the name of Manmohan  had already been taken within minutes of ties was called, the government won the History here Singh. Many were surprised by the pres-  the markets opening at 10 am.The storyof vote of confidence, and the deal was con-  enceof the blue-turbaned,elder-looking  duded in due course. Even after the Left The present generation (born after  gentleman seated in the first row.It was parties withdrew support, true to his  1991) scarcely believes that there was an clear that he would be sworn in as a Cab- famous words "I have jumped", are now nature,Dr Singhtreatedtheirleaders with  India with one television ch annel,one car, inet minister, but what portfolio would  partofthe folklore surroundingthe deval- respect and maintained cordial relations  one airline,onetelephone serviceprovider, the PM give him? Within hours,he was uation.That single act stamped Dr Singh with them. trunk call,PCO/STD/ISD boothsandlong  seenat the North Block. -- the accidental finance minister -- as a waiting lists for everything from two- Compassionate liberaliser  determined finance minister with nerves wheclers to train tickets to passports.The Steel within of steeltodowhathe thoughtwas the right Few people realise that without Dr  seeds of change were sowed by Dr Singh, a The devaluation of the rupee was thingtodo. Singh'sunequivocal support themajorsig. fact belatedly acknowledged by Prime announced on July1,1991 bythe RBI.The That steel was exhibited again a few nature programmes of the UPA could not  Minister Modi's tribute to him and the  prime minister called me to his office on years later when the survival of the goy- have been launched or implemented.Two Cabinet resolution. the morning of July 3 and shared some of ernmentwas at stake. The proposed India-  examples, among many, were theAgricul- Whether history will be kinder to Dr United States Civil NuclearAgreement ran tural Dept Waiver(2008) and the Right to Singh or not, I believe that there are two his own misgivings) on the devaluation.1 into fierce opposition of the Left parties, Food programme (2013). Dr Singh was  indelible foot prints of Dr Singh on the  narr ated the familiar script that the rupee especially the CP1(M). The party general strongly in favour of both welfare pro- pages of history: one, during his ten-year was overvalued, that exports were suffer-  secretary,Mr Prakash Karat,threatened to  grammes,but he repeatedlycautioned me tenure, he delivered an average GDP ing, that foreign exchange reserves were withdrawsupportto the UPA govemment to keep an cye ontheirimpact on the fisca! growth rate of 6.8%. Two, according to low, that foreign investors were reluctant  if the deal was concluded. Many Congress  deficit. He, more than any political leader,.. UNDP,the UPAlifted outofpovertyan esti- to invest in India, and so on. Rao  leaders,otherwise supportive oftheprime  was acutely conscious of the fact that if  mated 270 millio people in ten years.  disclosed thatthere was one more devalu-  minister and the deal,had reservationson  macro-economicstabilitywaslost,nowel- Both were unpreccdented and not been ation and asked if I would go across to the.  sacrificing the government for a deal that  fare programme couldbe implemented in emulated since. History's judgment is finance minister and request him if the. will,anyway,be abortedifthe government  the mediumor long run. When hewassat- already here. second step could be postponed if not. lost its majority. Dr Singh stood firm: he  isfied that the government would meetthe x Website: pchidambaram.in  aborted. I was certain I was not the only.  told me he would have no option but to target ofthe fiscaldeficit,he approved the X @Pchidambaram_IN  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025  https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76561014 )

[Extracted from 91633083-b6ec-4843-852d-f5877cd21a7e.jpg]
Indian-origin IT companies corner a fifth of H-1Bvisas PRESS TRUST OFINDIA LEADING THE PACK New Delhi, January 5 InDIan-OrIGIn tech COm- PANIES comered a fifth of all H-1B visas issued by the US with Infosys and Tata Consul- tancy Services (Tcs) leading the pack, an analysis of data  Of the total 13L H-1B visas from the US immigration issued, 24,766 visas were department showed. issued to Indian-origin firms  According to data from the US Citizenship and Immigra-  Infosys took the lead with tion Services, in April-Septem- 8,140 beneficiaries, followed bytcs (5,274), ber 2024 period,out of the tota! 1.3lakhH-1Bvisas issuedtodif- and HCLAmerica (2,953) ferentemployers,about24,766 nfosys came second visas were issued to Indian-ori-  only.toAmazon Com gin firms. Out of these, Infosys Services,whichtopped took theleadwith 8,140benefi- with 9:265.visas ciaries,followed by TCS(5,274), New Jersey headquartered and HCLAmerica(2,953). Cognizant, ranked third in  Infosys came second onlyto Amazon Com Services, which topped with 9,265 visas. Cog-  nizant, which was founded in  ongoingdevelopments indicate Chennai butnowhasheadquar- a  need for adaptation in ters in New Jersey, ranked third  response to regulatory changes in thelist with 6,321 visas. and public sentiment. The  The H-1 B visa programme futureofthe H-1Bvisawilllikely allows US firms to temporarily depend on balancingthe needs employ foreign workers in spe- ofthe US businesses for skilled cialtyoccupations.Indianfirms labour with broader immigra- have been significantbeneficia- tionpolicyreforms. Elon Musk,a ries ofthis programme,particu-  former H-1B visa holder whose larly in the technology sector. firm Tesla utilises this pro- Major Indian IT services  gramme,haspubliclysupported firms such as TCS, Infosys, the tech industry's reliance on Wipro, and HCL Technologies  foreign workers. have consistently ranked  In a post on X on December amongthe topemployers for H- 28, Musk emphasised the 1Bvisaholders.Wiprowaslower importanceofwelcomingindi- down this time with 1,634 visa viduals from all backgrounds grants. Tech Mahindra stood who contribute to the US dose by, having been issued through hard work.He passion- 1,199 visas. ately advocated for preserving While these firms continue America as a land of freedom to benefit fromtheprogramme, and opportunity. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 202! 00 Read to Lead https://epaper.finat

[Extracted from 9434addf-ea5c-4c70-96ba-8728a90ae99a.jpg]
ho URVI MALVANIA  approach to growing its footprint. It Mumbai, January 2 has startedlaunchingphysicalcoun- REPORT CARD RONNIE SCREWVALA  selling and learning centres across at UPGRAD.CO-FOUNDER & CHAIRPERSON EDTeCh Firm upgRAD will focus the country.  more on high margin businesses FY 24 financial snapshot (t cr) We wanted to swing com- The pivot to non-university-led like upskilling courses rather than Gross revenue education is also driving the omni- PRESS pletely to everything being formal education formats in order 1(876) channel strategy as conversion rates New D profitable. We wanted to see to drive profitability as it prepares  forupskillingprogrammes arehigher  EBITDA loss  for an initial public offering seven that anything that was too when there is a physical counselling MAHIN 1285 to nine quarters down the line, much of a burn for us to get option."These (counselling) centres ward tc Net loss majority' shareholder Ronnie are not where we are teaching.These confid growth, we will not do it. Screwvala told FE.  560 areaidingthe online educationverti- to achi  Profi tability will further be dri- cal. We are counselling so they can  ing to i ven by the"top-up and tank-up"  come online.When one is talkingon Anish 9  upGrad aims for 35%-40% The ed-tech platform phenomena for the firm,he said,as  the phone,the common responseis'I In  CAGR, shifting focus to  sees a strong demand for more professionals in India lookto Shall think aboutit, butwhen one sits emplo profitable non-university  upskilling in competitive  acquireadditional skills, and inter- down (face to face) and has an hour- over tl courses with higher margins  job markets national customers, most notably long conversation, the conversion accele in the North American market, rates are 12%-20% higher' Screw- and its look to upskill and gain a compet- valasaid. tious g  Top-up and tank-up *The ARPU (average revenue per  more companies focus on upskilling itive edge. The firm currently has 28 such all cyli The firm, which doubled its In the non-university pro- user) is higher. We charge around  its workforce in new technolo gies. For counsellingcentres across Mumbai, "W revenues in FY24 over FY23 is grammes,upGrad seesaclearplayfor 40,000 to 50, 000 in India. There FY24, the enterprise segment was Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and is confide looking at a growth of 35%-40% upskilling courses, especially com- we charge$2,000(Over1.70lakhat  roughly20% ofupGrad's revenue,of  looking to open more in cities like  to achi CAGR in future,though growth in  petitive job markets abroad, and the currentexchange rate).Sothere,they whichAI skill courses contributed to Delhi NCR, and Pune. It is adding contin the year ending March 2025 will enterprise segment in India. are verysharpabout the'top-up'that 20% of the revenue. around5-7 centresa month. audaci be lower. "We wanted to swing "Tank up is when I'm an empty theyneed, whilehere,it's allaboutthe However,the strongest contribu- For markets like Kolkata, upGrad cipline completely to everything being  tank and I fill the whole tank. Top up 'tank-up' Screwvala said.  tors continue to be technology and  is looking to open learning centres achiev profitable. We wanted to see that  is when I think I am going on a long Ofcourse,some courses are mod-  sales courses. For its non-university  offering short courses which make Refi anything that was too much of a  drive so why don't I just fill up my elled differently for the US market.  programmes,upGrad creates courses leamers more skill and job-ready It  has be burn for us to get growth, we will tank, even though I don't need to,  For example, a course in digital mar- with educators and industry profes-  has five to seven such learning cen-  dimen not do it, Screwvala said. because it can go all the way' Screw-  ketingwill have different modules sionals.This allows it notonly the flu- tres in citieslike Puneand Indore. surpas  This includes dialling back on  valaexplained. basis the media and advertising envi- idity of structuring the courses,but "These are notdegree coursesbut Credit!  the university led education verti-  In thehighlycompetitive job mar- certification courses of three to six tumin ronment in the two counties. How- also margin competitiveness since cal where the ed-tech firm gets  kets,like those in the US, 5-10% edge ever, for basic tech slill, especially. the intellectual property (IP) for the  months.We are alsovery frugal when ties ar 70% margins as compared to the  over fellow job-seekers helps stand  emerging technologies like artificial said course is owned by it.  itcomes toopeningthese centres. The tions"l non-university led modules where out. As a result, its certification  intelligence, the modules are pretty  benchmark costofopeningone such cover r  Omni-channel approach  margins can be upwards of 90%,he  courses find more traction in the US  much the same. centre is 14-18 lakh. By the third GDP, ? added.Currently, 40% of upGrad's  than India. Even with fewer cus- The upskilling segment is also While it started out as an online  month,theyareopexbreakeven,and  meani tomers in the intemational markets,  allowing upGrad to tap into the total revenue comes from univer-  learning platform, upGrad is now  by the end of a year they are capex these s sity dependent programmes. the firmis able to drive value. enterprise consumer segment as looking at an omni-channel breakeven, Screwvala said. "W Fri, 03 January 2025  FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76546793 Read to Lead

[Extracted from 97992464-017b-4914-a48a-405795dd9baf.jpg]
INVESTING STRATEGY IN 2025: PORTFOLIO MIX Keep equities at 60%, fixed income at 40% o Stick to SIPs, STPs qualitylong-maturity debt foryield. DIVERSIFIED APPROACH Sonam Srivastava, founder, Wright to avoid market Returns in 2024 Research, says gradual exposure to timing risks Tycarreturns 1lakhinvested long-maturity debt can be consid- Instrument (in%) 1year,ago ered, but only if rates stabilise or decline. "For 2025, maintaining SAIKAT nEOgI Gold 23.34 1,23,340 exposure to floating-rate bonds or Silver 21.12 1,21,120 inflation-indexed securities can pro- AMID GROWING VOLATILITY and vide additional protection, she says. 1-year post office moderate return expectations from 6.9 1,06,900 Anil Rego, founder, Right Hori- deposit equities this year, experts suggest  zons, says the liquidity easing mea- investors should lookataportfolioof 1-year.FD (SBI) 6.8 1,06,800 suresbythe Reserve BankofIndia in 60% in equities, 30% in fixed its December 2024 meeting signal EPF 1 8.25 1,08,250 income and 10% in gold.Large-cap a possible rate cut by end of FY25, funds are expected to outperform Small-cap 32.4 1,32,400 likely leading to a decline in bond small- and mid-caps in the near term Mid-cap 30.2 1,30,200 yields and price appreciation. "We due to premium market valuations. [Equities. Debt"  prefer medium-and long-maturity Large-cap 119.6 1,19,600  In an environment ofelevated  bonds due to their appealing yield  Invest with moderate  Focus on gilt and valuations, focusing on quality Senior Citizens  and thepotential for price apprecia- 8.2 1,08,200 returns expectations corporate bond funds growth stocks with strong funda- Savings Scheme tion'he says. mentals,sustainable earnings, and  Large-cap funds offer  Dynamic bond funds  7.1 Investors must avoid the temp- PPF reasonable valuation metrics iskey. 1,07,100  stability during volatile offer flexibility in a tation to pursue fleeting market periods  volatile environment Investors should prioritise compa- Source: Bankbazaar.com trends or chase the past year's out- nies with consistent cash flows and performing sectors. Instead, they lowerleverage. Gold can be accessed  Focus on quality growth stocks  Avoid the temptation to pursue  Periodically rebalance portfolio should focus on maintainingawell- through exchange traded funds with strong fundamentals, fleeting market trends or chase to align with inve stment goals, rounded portfolio that can weather while real estate investments may sustainable earnings & the past year's outperforming risk appetite & weather various various market conditions. be made via real estate investment Rebalancing demands disci- reasonable valuation metrics  sectors  market conditions trusts for flexibility. pline,as itoften involves counterin- Investors should stick tosystem- tuitive decisions, like selling your atic investment plans and system-  approach,suchas 60%investments capex, as well as consumer discre- income instruments is key for sta- winnersandbuyingunderperform- atic transfer plans to avoid market in equities and 40% in debt is suit- tionary sectors like tourism and  bilityand predictableretuns.Grad- ing assets.Sharmaof EsteeAdvisors, timing risks. Moreover, portfolio able for most investors this year. automotive, show growth poten- ually increasing exposure to long-  says investing can evoke fear in rebalancing should be guided by a "Adding real estate to your portfolio tial,' he adds. term debt can help capitalise on downturns and greedduring rallies, disciplined approach rather than can enhance diversification" he dedining interest rates while man-  but rebalancing onapre-scheduled Fixed-income allocation market timing. In fact, investors Says. aging timing risks. A systematic  basis--annuallyorsemi-annually- should set thresholds for asset allo- Similarly, Nirav Karkera, head, Investors should review their approach, such as investing in  helps you make choices rooted in cation deviations and a quarterly Research, Fisdom,says sectoral rota- fixed-income portfolios to ensure  dynamicbond funds,helpsnavigate logic rather than sentiment. reviewcan helprealign investments tion presentsopportunitiesininfor- they align with investment goals volatility. "While this may not appeal to your with long-termgoals.  mation technology, pharma, tex-  and risk tolerance. A diversified  Investors should prefer a barbell emotional instincts, it is often the Vivek Sharma,head,Investment, tiles, and select consumer stocks. approach with government bonds, strategy--combining short-term right choice for long-term success,"' Estee Advisors, says a balanced "Sectorslinked to infrastructureand corporate debt, and other fixed-  instruments for liquidity and high- he says. FINAnCIaL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 00 Read to teao  https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76551001

[Extracted from 97d5c13f-aebc-4d5a-bd99-84a824343bba.jpg]
The rise and fall of Dunzo's Kabeer Biswas ANEES HUSSAIN depart, and investors pulling the consumer had, became and cost of quick commerce. Cash-rich competitors like 'company had with Reliance, The startup that raised  Bengaluru, January 3 the plug, Biswasis orchestrating  Dunzo's early differentiator in While our competitors were Zepto, Blinkitand SwiggyInsta- was to turn cash flow positive. nearly $470 million since what could be his final act at the the market,-- from regular par- focused on unit economics, we By FY23, Dunzo'slosses had  inception andonce exemplified IN THE STREETS of Bengaluru company: Finding a buyerwill- cel deliveries, to leaky faucets,  were trying to solve inventory  in the quick commerce space, jumpedto 1,801crorein FY23  Indian entrepreneurial success  in 2014, Kabeer Biswas u sed to  ing to assume Dunzo's mount- Dunzo could get it all done. management with tech solu-  leaving a gap too wide for from R464 crore in FY22.  now serves as a cautionary tale. ing debt andliabilities. Its popularity with. con-  tions that looked good on paper Dunzo to catch up In an effort  Though the company's FY24 coordinate deliveries through  about the perils of rapid expan- WhatsApp groups, personally Biswas, holding a 3.39% sumers attracted Google's first but didn't translate to the real to recalibrate, Dunzo exitedthe financials are not available, sion and shifting focus from responding to ' customer stake, remains tied to the com- direct startup investment in world, a senior ex-employee segment, and got back to its internal sources suggest Dunzo core strengths. From its peak requests and managingthe first  pany by necessity -- corporate  India-- a$12.3 million Series B would later admit.  original model of hyperlocal  now operates with 40,000 daily valuation of $770 million,  8,000 deliveries of what would law requires aminimumof two round in 2017, for a 19.3%  deliveries for nearby grocery orders and 50 employees,down.  industry insiders now estimate  become Dunzo. directors, prevent-  stake. This came when many stores and those on the ONDC from its peak workforce of Dunzo's acquisition value The rise was ing his departure  investors were hesitant about network It also tricd to become 2,000. This has Though the between $25-30 By 2022, the firm  untileitherasaleis the hyperlocal delivery space,  a delivery partner for retailers helped the com-  million. spectacular for company's FY24 Biswas. By 2016,  achieved a billion- completed or the with several similar ventures  and merchants who had their pany breakeven, Biswas has financials are not Dunzo became a  dollar valuation, company is liqui- struggling to survive. At the own online stores, but had to with a massively  pitching been  available, internal verb synonymous  well and truly  datedA plan to sell  time, Googlehad cited Dunzo's revert to its B2C model as it reduced scale. new ventures to with convenient iscurrentlyunder-  ability to execute as the reason lacked funds to expand in the However,accumu- sources suggest  setting in motion VCs alongside hyperlocal deliv- way, marking the to invest in the company. B2Bsegment. lateddebt of Dunzo now Ankur Aggarwal, the habit of ery in India and conclusion of The trajectory shifted sig. The past 18 months have around 600crore operates with even to thelikesof  convenient delivery boasted millions Biswas'sjoumeyat nificantly in 2022 when  seen Biswas attempting to res- makes recovery  40,000 daily orders PeakXV. Accord- ofusers.By2022, as second nature Dunzo.  Relianceinvested$240million cue his startup. From negotia- difficult without  ing to filings with.  and 50 employees the  company Early  Dunzo for a 27.6% stake, according to tions with Reliance Retail foran external interven- the Ministry of  achieved a billion-  users remember a Tracxn.Atone stage, Biswas's net investment of around$20 mil- tion,theyadded. CorporateAffairs, dollar valuation, well and truly  founder deeply involved in the : worth was estimated at over lion, to its efforts to raise $22- The company's financial  Biswas andAnkurAgarwal reg- setting in motion the habit of day-to-dayoperations.One cus- 6,000 crore. The Reliance 25 million through external  troubles have also led to legal  istered anewventure, Nexavise convenient delivery as second tomer shared a WhatsApp investment led to aggressive investors, -nothing seems to problems,with agroupofcredi-  Solutions, in June 2024. How- nature in India -- effects of  screenshotwhere sherequested expansion plans and a pivotto have panned out as potential tors fling aninsolvencyapplica- ever, plans to pursue this new which are now beingenjoyed by.  delivery of a large electronic investors do not seem to be con- tion inJuy alleging partialdear- initiative have been shelved. the likes of Zepto, Blinkit, and  appliance that wouldn't ft ona Dunzo Daily. "We vinced of its abilityto revive.  ance of dues. Meanwhile, all He is limited by certain non- Instamart. bike. Biswas's response was underestimated the  One of the service level ex-employees are still awaiting compete clauses in his agree- But the world has since characteristic of his hands-on complexity agreements the a resolution on promised  mentwith Reliance,at least for tumed upsidedown forthe40-  approach -- he didn't dismiss salaries. After the roadblock in  the time being. year-old MBA from Narsee the request but instead pro- raising funds became clear to As all doors are being shut Monji Institute of Manage-  posed a solution,suggesting a Biswas, he even wrote to  on him, Biswas has no option ment Studies.Aftergoing with- four-wheeler at an extra cost. employees urging them not to but to come to terms with the out a salary for 20 months and This approach of not saying no. take legal action as this would proverb -- what goes up must watching his co-founders.  to anyproblem-solving needs  only"delaytheongoing process"  come down. Sat, 04 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS tAd to teae  https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76556388

[Extracted from 99a39638-06e8-4bc0-9eb9-021da09246e6 (1).jpg]
Zomato & Swiggy may continue 210 fee after festivities AnEEs husSAIn PRICING WAR Bengaluru, January 3  10 platform fee FOOD DELIVeRy pLATFoRMS since Oct 2024; Zomato and Swiggy are likely to customers pay $ continue charging customers the 11.8 with GST  increased platform fee of R10 per order even after the festive season 150,000-200,000 ordersdailyon ends,sources aware of the matter told FE. bothplatforms The platforms had raised their fees to 10 in October 2024, citing  Swiggy  Swiggy tive period. The fee, which att racts .  introduced 2 raised  an additional 18% GST, means. fee in Apr 2023; fees to R5 customers currently pay 11.8 on Zomato (Apr 2024), every order placed through the  followed with 36 (Jul 2024). platforms. With both platforms z3 inAug 2023  z10 (Oct 2024) delivering around  150,000- 200,000 orders each per day and Zomato hiked fees tos customers -- including premium subscribers of Zomato Gold and  Platform  Restaurants Swiggy One who enjoy free deliv- fees increased  pay upto 40% eranr nnnnn nn arnnnnnr 400% since  in commissions values -- it is seen as a significant launch  and costs push towards profitability. While the platform fee is bome Commissions Platforms directly by customers and not 15-30% sawrecord restaurants, the National Restau- orders during rant Association of India (NRAI) the2024 sees it as a positive development  payments that could potentially ease the 1.8% co mmission burden on Fees ease restaurants. restaurant  promotions Pranay M Rungta, vice presi- burdens;NRAI 5-10% supports should continue with the them increased platform fee as this through commissions on restau- rants. The ideal way for a food mot  delivery platform to earn is when the consumer is paying for that convenience. "In fact, we will onlysee this fee going up in the coming years, as users seem to have taken well to the idea of paying for convenience. Both platforms reported record  Zomato running. To maintain ser- number of orders this festive' vices duringthe festive rush,it has  period, as compared to previous. : increased slightly." years, Rungta said. Swiggy followed suit within Platform fees, which are"  under a'festive season platform rant charges,delivery feesand GST, fee nomenclature,citing similar have seen progressive increases  reasons of maintaining smooth. since their introduction.  operations through a period of Swiggy pioneered the concept  increased demand. "The cost for a restaurant or inApril 2023 with a modest R2 fee, whilst Zomato followed suit in  merchant to acquire an order on August 2023. Both platforms have Swiggy, or Zomato, often go up to since implemented multiple increases, with Swigsy imple-  includes commissionswhich could menting risesto <5in April and 6  range from 15-30% depending on in Julylast year, before the current size and relationship with the 10 rate. In 2023, Zomato had increased the fee to  3 before rais- ment handling(1.8%),and for pro- ing it again in January 2024 to 4.  motion and discounts on the app It had temporarily hiked the plat- (5-10%).We have been urging the form fee to 9 on December 31,  aggregators to reduce this burden 202 3. The current fee represents a  on the restaurants, and the way to 400% rise from the initial intro- do that is by charging the con- duction forboth platforms. Zomato's app" notification  Rungta added. regarding the latest increase in Swiggy and Zomato did not  respond to a request for comments  atthe time of going to the press. helps us pay our bills to keep  FInAncial EXpReSs Sat, 04 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexp @ Ead to lead

[Extracted from 99a39638-06e8-4bc0-9eb9-021da09246e6.jpg]
Zomato & Swiggy may continue 210 fee after festivities AnEEs husSAIn PRICING WAR Bengaluru, January 3  10 platform fee FOOD DELIVeRy pLATFoRMS since Oct 2024; Zomato and Swiggy are likely to customers pay $ continue charging customers the 11.8 with GST  increased platform fee of R10 per order even after the festive season 150,000-200,000 ordersdailyon ends,sources aware of the matter told FE. bothplatforms The platforms had raised their fees to 10 in October 2024, citing  Swiggy  Swiggy tive period. The fee, which att racts .  introduced 2 raised  an additional 18% GST, means. fee in Apr 2023; fees to R5 customers currently pay 11.8 on Zomato (Apr 2024), every order placed through the  followed with 36 (Jul 2024). platforms. With both platforms z3 inAug 2023  z10 (Oct 2024) delivering around  150,000- 200,000 orders each per day and Zomato hiked fees tos customers -- including premium subscribers of Zomato Gold and  Platform  Restaurants Swiggy One who enjoy free deliv- fees increased  pay upto 40% eranr nnnnn nn arnnnnnr 400% since  in commissions values -- it is seen as a significant launch  and costs push towards profitability. While the platform fee is bome Commissions Platforms directly by customers and not 15-30% sawrecord restaurants, the National Restau- orders during rant Association of India (NRAI) the2024 sees it as a positive development  payments that could potentially ease the 1.8% co mmission burden on Fees ease restaurants. restaurant  promotions Pranay M Rungta, vice presi- burdens;NRAI 5-10% supports should continue with the them increased platform fee as this through commissions on restau- rants. The ideal way for a food mot  delivery platform to earn is when the consumer is paying for that convenience. "In fact, we will onlysee this fee going up in the coming years, as users seem to have taken well to the idea of paying for convenience. Both platforms reported record  Zomato running. To maintain ser- number of orders this festive' vices duringthe festive rush,it has  period, as compared to previous. : increased slightly." years, Rungta said. Swiggy followed suit within Platform fees, which are"  under a'festive season platform rant charges,delivery feesand GST, fee nomenclature,citing similar have seen progressive increases  reasons of maintaining smooth. since their introduction.  operations through a period of Swiggy pioneered the concept  increased demand. "The cost for a restaurant or inApril 2023 with a modest R2 fee, whilst Zomato followed suit in  merchant to acquire an order on August 2023. Both platforms have Swiggy, or Zomato, often go up to since implemented multiple increases, with Swigsy imple-  includes commissionswhich could menting risesto <5in April and 6  range from 15-30% depending on in Julylast year, before the current size and relationship with the 10 rate. In 2023, Zomato had increased the fee to  3 before rais- ment handling(1.8%),and for pro- ing it again in January 2024 to 4.  motion and discounts on the app It had temporarily hiked the plat- (5-10%).We have been urging the form fee to 9 on December 31,  aggregators to reduce this burden 202 3. The current fee represents a  on the restaurants, and the way to 400% rise from the initial intro- do that is by charging the con- duction forboth platforms. Zomato's app" notification  Rungta added. regarding the latest increase in Swiggy and Zomato did not  respond to a request for comments  atthe time of going to the press. helps us pay our bills to keep  FInAncial EXpReSs Sat, 04 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexp @ Ead to lead

[Extracted from 99f3abd1-a313-43b6-83b6-6e0c111d1398.jpg]
FrOMTHE FrONT PAGE Norms for capex release... THE BALANCE OF R55,O00  MINIMISING SHORTFALL crore is untied advances to states for projects identified by Centre's interest-free 50-year capex loans to states the states. ( crore) According to the latest  Budget estimate  amendment to the norms, the 11,830 Actual states which have faced natural 10,000 disasters of severe nature in fy22: 2024-2 5, as confirmed by the 14,186 home ministry panel, will be  provided additional allocation 100,000 of up to 50% of the amount FY23 81,195 already allocated under the  untied category. This amount 1,50,000  would have to be used by the FY24 affected states for reconstruc- 2,05;551) tion ofinfrastructure preferably in disaster-affected districts and 1,50,000 FY25 for projects to mitigate future Eo00'os *Up to December 31 'disasters. Also, the states which have utilised the first installment ria, the Centre allocated of 2024-25 or in the first three under the untied category and 25,000 crore as an incentive quarters of 2024-25 over the have availed the second install- for states' capex performance: growth rate in the correspond- ment would be provided an 50% for achieving over 10%  ing period of 2023-24, will also additional allocation of up to  on-year capex growth in FY24  be considered for grantofincen-  100% ofthe original to north  and the balance 50%for achiey- tives. Amongothers, the Centre east and hill states and 50% for  ingover 10%growth inthe first also amended conditions  the original allocation for other six months of FY25. Funds  related tourbanandrural infra- states, on a first-come-first- would be allocated among states structure projects and incen- serve basis. in proportion to their share of tives for implementation of the. These two amendments  central taxes and duties as per  SNA SPARSH Model for Just-in-  would increase the aggregate  the award of the 15th Finance Time release of funds under flow of untied loans to states. Commission. centrally sponsored schemes.. substantially as against the ini- Theamendment to the con- These would ensure that loans  tial allocation of 55,000 crore  dition says that in addition to  earmarked for these purposes for FY25. states which qualify for incen- would be fully utilised bystates. The Centre has also cased  tives for achieving more than A new part has been intro- several conditions under the  10% growth incapitalexpendi- duced under tied loans that ear- 'tied' component of the loan, ture in the firsthalfof 2024-25,  marks 25,000 crore loans to including the one related to states which achieve growth  states whichhave undertakenor rate of more than 10% in Q2  undertaking urban planning states. As per the original crite- plusQ3 (JulytoDecember 2024)  reforms in FY25. Indices soar nearly 2% EQUITY INDICES OF China, Research, Wealth Manage-  positive, with 2,395 advances Hong Kong, and Thailand  ment, Motilal Oswal Financial  against 1,574 dedines. The  declined by up to 2.66%, while Services. broader market indices, BSE Indonesia (up 1.18%), Aus- Many foreign brokerages  Midcap and BSE Smallcap rose tralia (up 0.5 3%), and Singa-  are also now bullish on India. by 0.89% and 0.68%, respec- pore (up 0.35%) ended with Investors in Indian stocks tivey. gains. Except for the US and should shift focus from book- Investors'wealth surged by Japan, most major equity mar-  ing profits to becoming'selec- 6.04 lakh crore to 450.5 kets resumed trading after tive buyers', given the govern-  lakh crore. Christmas and New Year cele- ment's capital expenditure Eicher Motors was the top brations. plans aimed at fuelling Nifty gainer, rising 8.55%. Interestingly, foreign port- growth, analysts at Bernstein After a 3.26%gain on Wednes-  folio investors (FPIs) were net said while Jefferies is opti- day, Maruti   Suzuki i rose buyers, purchasing shares mistic about the country's  another 5.5% on Thursday. worth 21,506.75 crore, while  industrial stocks ahead of the Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, domestic institutional Budget, according to and Shriram Finance were investorsbought shares worth Bloombergreport. other top Nifty performers. R22.14 crore. In the broad-based rally, all Experts believe that some "We expect the gradual sectoral indices on the BSE short covering by FPIs likely uptick to continue in the mar- ended in the green. The auto .occurred, as they were sitting ket over the next few days, sector led with a 3.79% gain,  on substantial short positions. alongside a close watch on Q3 followed by IT (2.26%), con- Overseas investors' bearish earnings and global cues as sumer durables (1.89%), bets on Nifty futures as of  foreign markets reopen after financial services(1.64%), and Wednesday were the highest year-end holidays," said Sid-  privatebanks (1.41%).  since Juneofthepreviousyear,  dhartha Khemka, Head of The market breadth was  according to Bloomberg data. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/765495: C tead to Leao

[Extracted from 9fb54b4e-80e9-443f-b96f-8fec309936af.jpg]
O RADHIKA GUPTA, MD.& CEO, EDELWEISS ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY Taking the middle path with diverse investments is key' The stock markct has leen gong cnd ofthe ycar,the mutual fund SIP Do you share those concems? through tough times,but the good book has hit rewrdlevdsof We focus heavily on earnings growth nawsis thrat retail investors have R25,000 crore.Will this continue? across all our portfolio finms,as it continued to invest in systematic Yes, we do see the SIP bookconti-  remains a core driver of market inwestment plans(SIPs) says nuing to grow structurally. People are growth. In our long-onlyfunds, we Radhika Gupta, MD& CEO,Edd- embracing SIPs as a structural wayof follow a strict policyofnotholding weissAsset Mamagement Company saving and value cost averaging.In  more than 5% cash.When investors Gupta tells Akshata Gorde that thc fact, I believe the word SIP'has  allocate moneyto, say, a large-capor SIPbook, currently at 25,000crore a  become more popular than'mutual mid-cap fund, theyexpectus to month, will risc to <80,000-90,000 fund.with the number ofnew  remain largely fully invested in those crorc by 2030.Erccrpts:  investors joining,there will segments.Assetallocationdecisions  always be some tapering off of are best made by investors and their How do you see the stock the froth or dosingof short- advisors outside the fund. market in 202 5?What term SIPs-perhaps 5-10% Our core expertise is in stodk kindof assetallocation ofthe book But I'm selectionand sectorrotation,and not would you prescribe? optimistic that by the endof  in timing the market.That's whywe The year2024 sawelections in the decade, India's SIP book  maintain minimal cash levels. three major markets, the start of the could grow to <80,000-90,000 crore. However, we are extremelyagile in rate cutcycle inthe US,and notable our fund management approach. outflows by foreigninstitutional There are concems ofa slowdown We are constantly looking to find investors. Moving into 202 5,the  in earnings growth alongwith the  investable opportunities,and focuswill shifttocorporate eamings,  possibilityof eamings downgrades move our portfolios. which can drive the narkets forward.  in the coming quarters.These have Several stodks have rallied on  prompted some fund houses to Sebi has recentlynotificdrules and camings expectations,and the hold cash levelsashighas 50-80%. digibilityfor the newasset class-- comingyearwill testtheirdelivery. specialised investment funds.Do  For investors,maintaininga you see an opportunity? disciplined apprcadh to asset alloca- We're very excited, and while many tion remains crucial.Inequities, plans are inthe works,it's a bit earlyto large-cap valuations appcarfair, Share specifics. That said,there are a while mid- and small caps are trad- F: couple ofopportunitieswhere invest- ing at a 10-30% premiumto histo-  ment strategies can be created,such rical averages.A balanced allocation as credit-focused strate gies, more across flexi-capand multi-cap concentrated equity, and long-short. strategies, avoiding extreme tilts. One  should maintaina healthyallocation to debtand even international equities Amiddle-path approach PEOPLEARE-EMBRACING with diversified investments and long-tem focus will be the key. WAY OF SAVINGAND VALUE COSTAVERAGING Despite the FPI sellingandprofit- bookingbyinvestorstowardsthe FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 @.0 "Read to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76543738

[Extracted from EPaper-International_02-01-2025_G0LDPVV2R.1.png]
Ukraine halts transit of Russian gas to Europe Associated Press date on the Telegram mes- through  Turkiye to KYIV saging app. Bulgaria. At a summit in Brussels Ukraine on Wednesday last month, Ukrainian Pre- Energy crisis. halted Russian gas supplies sident Volodymyr Zelen- After the war started, Rus- to European  customers skyy vowed that Kyiv sia cut off most supplies. through its pipeline net- would not allow Moscow to through the Baltic and Be- work after a pre-war transit use the transits to earn larus-Poland pipelines, cit- deal expired at the end of "additional billions... on ing disputes over a de- last year. our blood, on the lives of. mand for payment in Ukraine's Energy Minis- our citizens" But he had roubles. The Baltic pipe- ter Herman Halushchenko briefly held open the possi- line was blown up in an act confirmed on Wednesday  bility of the gas flows conti- of sabotage, but details of morning that Kyiv had  nuing if payments to Russia. the attack remain murky. stopped the transit "in the were withheld until the Key link: An underground gas storage facility in Lviv, Ukraine. AFP The Russian cutoff interest of national securi- war ends. caused an energy crisis in ty". "This is a historic Russian  state-owned and tanks moved into Uk- Before the war, Russia Europe. Germany had to event. Russia is losing mar- energy company Gazprom raine in 2022, Russian nat- supplied nearly 40% of the shell out billions of euros kets and will incur finan- said in a statement on Wed- ural gas kept flowing EU's pipeline natural gas. to set up floating terminalsn. cial losses. Europe has al- nesday that it "has no tech- through the country's pi- Gas flowed through four pi- to import liquefied natural ready decided to phase out nical and legal possibility" peline network to Europe, peline systems, one under gas that comes by ship. Us- Russian gas, and [this] of sending gas through Uk- under a five-year agree- the Baltic Sea, one through ers cut back as prices rose. aligns with what Ukraine raine, due to Kyiv's refusal ment. Gazprom earned Belarus and Poland, one Norway and the U.S. filled has done today, Mr. Ha- to extend the deal..  money from the gas and through Ukraine and one the gap, becoming the two lushchenko said in an up- Even as Russian troops Ukraine took transit fees. under the Black  Sea largest suppliers..

[Extracted from EPaper-International_02-01-2025_G0LDPVV35.1.png]
Wn accept the Supreme Court's decision on Dallewal s stir: Centre Farmer leader's hunger strike enters 37th day; groups leading the protest say they will not relent unless demands are met; The Hindu Bureau Farmer outfits are seek- The Samyukt Kisan Mor- ing a legal guarantee for NEW DELHI/ CHANDIGARH cha (SKM), the umbrella  purchasing their crops at a organisation of about 500 ACRICULTURE&FARMERSWELFAREMINT nion Agriculture minimum support price farmers' organisations, has 1 GOVFRNMENT OF IN DIA  Minister Shivraj (MSP) and a farm loan turned down the invitation  Singh Chouhan waiver, among other de- for discussions extended said here on Wednesday  mands. by a high-powered com- that the Centre will abide Farmers under the ban- mittee constituted by the by the Supreme Court's di- ner of the Kisan Mazdoor Supreme Court. The com- rections on the indefinite Morcha (KMM) and Samy- mittee, headed by former hunger strike by farmer ukta Kisan Morcha (Non- High Court judge, Justice leader Jagjit Singh Dalle- Political), the two umbrella Nawab Singh, had invited wal. bodies spearheading the the SKM to join its meeting "The Supreme Court is farmers' agitation in Pun- on Friday. looking into the matter. We jab, are camping at Shamb- "SKM in principle does will accept whatever deci- hu-Ambala and Khanauri- For a way out: Union Agriculture Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan not accept intervention of sion the top court takes,' Jind on the inter-State during a meeting with officials at Krishi Bhavan in New Delhi. PTI the Court because the Mr. Chouhan said at a press boundary, after    being farmers are fighting on pol- conference. stopped from entering in the coming days,' he  ded. A group of 101 farmers icy issues with the Centre However, farmer and Haryana. said. had made attempts to res- and hence the Court has farm labourer groups that KMM coordinator Sar- He asked the Aam Aad- tart their foot march from no role to play. In this con- have been camping on the wan Singh Pandher said, mi Party government in  Punjab to the national cap- text, SKM expresses its in- inter-State boundary of "Dallewalji's fast unto Punjab to pass a resolution ital on December 6, De- ability to accept the invita- Punjab and Haryana since death continues for the in favour of the farmers' cember 8 and December tion for the discussion by February 13, 2024 declared 37th consecutive day, but demands in the Assembly. 14. However, in the wake of the SC-appointed High Po- they would not relent un- the Centre is in slumber. "Besides, the AAP govern- elaborate security arrange- wered Committee, the less their demands are We will continue to strug- ment should reject the  ments put in place by the SKM said in a statement. met, even as Mr. Dallewal's gle until our demands are Centre's draft National Pol-  Haryana government, hunger strike entered the met. Dates for the Delhi  icy Framework on Agricul- their foot march had come FARM FIRE 37th day. march' will be announced tural Marketing," he ad- to a halt. > PAgE 8

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 173150.png]
winnn nnnnnnnn nn namnnn mnnnnn nnnnn economist-ruler credited with liberalisation  He passed away at AIIMS on Thursday President Droupadi Murmu describes Modi says as PM, Singh made extensive  Government functions cancelled and night after falling unconscious at home  Singh as 'one of the greatest sons of Bharat'  efforts to improve people's lives  seven-day national mourning declared Sandeep Phukan for two terms in the Con- A lasting imprint A forthright FM humility were always visi- meeting of the Congres: NEW DELHI gress-led United Progres-  ble. "Dr. Manmohan Singh  Manmohan Singh who effected Working Committee  on India's sive Alliance government Ji. Rising from humble ori- rushed back to Delhi. (1932-2024) external relations  social change  ormer Prime Minis- from 2004 to 2014, had gins, he rose to become a In a post on X, Mr ' ter  Manmohan  been in poor health for the respected economist. He  Kharge said India has lost ? Singh, 92, passed past few months. As Fi- served in various govern- visionary statesman,  NEW DELHI  NEW DELHI away at the All India Insti- nance Minister under ment positions as well, in. leader of unimpeachabl Although he was sometimes It is well known that tute of Medical Sciences former Prime Minister P.V. cluding as Finance Minis-  integrity, and an econo  criticised by the Opposition for  Manmohan Singh made way here on Thursday evening.  Narasimha Rao, he was the ter, leaving a strong mist of unparalleled sta being "maun" or silent, for foreign investments in Dr. Singh was admitted architect of reforms in 1991 imprint on our economic ture, and asserted tha  Manmohan Singh was a prolific myriad sectors. Yet, few would to the hospital in the emer-  that changed the course of remember his maiden Budget policy over the years. His "history will undoubtedly communicator when it came to gency ward around 8 p.m.  India's economic interventions in Parlia-  judge him kindly". "A mar his foreign policy. His  also set the foundations of in a critical condition. "He  trajectory. ment were also insightful. of action rather thar engagement with the Quad India's modern stock market was treated for age-related As a mark of respect to  boom with the creation of As our Prime Minister, he  words, his immense contri  made way for two of his medical conditions and  the former Prime Minister,  made extensive efforts to  bution to nation-building biggest foreign policy SEBI. Or that he passionately had sudden loss of con- all  Union government improve people's lives," will be etched in the annal. breakthroughs: with Japan, batted for consumer interests sciousness at home. Resus- functions were cancelled Mr. Modi said on X. Of Indian history" that ended India's isolation as well as wealth creators, citative measures  were  and a seven-day national Congress Parliamentary "Manmohan Singh Ji Iec over the nuclear tests of 1998, even as he held reservations I immediately mourning was' declared. started Party chairperson Sonia India with immense wis at and with the United States,  against *mindless and home. He was brought to The Union Cabinet will Gandhi and her daughter  dom and integrity. His hu which allowed for the civil heartless" conspicuous the medical emergency at  meet on Friday morning to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra mility and deep under nuclear deal. >> PAGE 5 consumerism. > PAGE 5 AllMs Delhi at 8.06 pm.  pass a condolence resolu- reached the hospital as standing of economic. Despite all efforts, he could tion. Dr. Singh's last rites Soon as news of his hospi. inspired the nation. My not be revived and was de- will be performed with full est sons of Bharat". roles in public offices, he utmost humility. His pass- and admirers," she said.  talisation became known. heartfelt condolences tc clared dead at 9.51 p.m." state honours. "Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji  made critical contributions ing is a great loss to all of  Offering tributes to his Congress president Malli- Mrs. Kaur and the family. an AIIMS bulletin said. Paying her tribute to the was one of those rare polit- to reforming Indian econo- us. I pay my respectful  predecessor, Prime Minis-  karjun Kharge and Leader have lost a mentor anc He is survived by his  former Prime Minister in a icians who also straddled my. He will always be re-  homage to one of the great- ter Narendra Modi said In- of the Opposition in the guide. Millions of us wh. wife, Gurcharan Singh, post on X, President Drou- the worlds of academia membered for his service est sons of Bharat and con- dia mourns the loss of one Lok Sabha Rahul Gandhi, admired him will remem and three daughters.  padi Murmu described Dr. and administration with to the nation, his unblem- vey my heartfelt condo- of its most distinguished who were in Karnataka's ber him with the utmos Dr. Singh, who was PM -  Singh as "one of the great-. equal. ease.. In. his-various.  ished political life and his.  lences to his family, friends . leaders whose wisdom and   Belagavi . for- an . extended- - pride, Mr. Gandhi said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 173255.png]
rejected' in Lok Sabha election, show EC data The Hindu Bureau plaints. Only one Lok Sab-  whom only seven managed NEW DELHI 2024 LS election in numbers ha constituency of Surat to win. None of the 279 wo (Gujarat) was uncontested. men Independent candi As many as 86% of the over 8,360 candidates who contested Over 10.58 lakh votes were The total number of dates won. the Lok Sabha elections lost their deposits not counted or rejected in polling  stations was As compared to 726 in the Lok Sabha election  Votes not counted/rejected: 10,51,016 and the average 2019, the number of wo 10.58 lakh including held earlier this year, says a number of electors per men candidates increased detailed statistical report 5.36 lakh postal votes) polling station was 930. to 800 in 2024, while the released by the Election  Total polling stations: There was re-polling in 40 number of women voters Commission on Thursday. Total Women 10.51takh polling stations. rose to 47.63 crore in 2024 Of these, 5,35,825 were electors: voters: While the number of from 43.85 crore in 2019. 97.97 47.63  Average postal votes and 5,22,513  Number of nominations filed in the. The female voter turnout crore crore electors per Independent were votes cast in electron- Lok Sabha polls stood at increased from 65.55% to  polling station: candidates: ic voting machines. 12,459, only 8,360 quali- 65.78%. Total voters: Female voter 930 3,921 According to the data, 64.64 fied to contest after rejec- turnout: The six national parties, which was released as part 65.78%  Women candidates: 800 tion of nominations and including the BJP, Congress crore of a comprehensive set of. withdrawals. Of those who and CPI(M), bagged over SOurce: election commission Of india 42 statistical reports for the contested, 7,190 candi- 63% share of the total valid Lok Sabha election, show crease of 7.43%. votes, 9,634 were "ten- dates (86%) lost their depo- votes. that more than 97.97 crore Out of these registered dered" votes, which means  sits as they failed to garner Also,  47 recognised citizens had registered electors, 64.64 crore voted that there were incidents  more than one-sixth of the State parties and 690 regis themselves as voters as in 2024. Of the votes cast, where impersonators vot- votes polled. tered, unrecognised politi against the over 91.19 crore 63.89 crore were valid. ed in the name of genuine There were 3,921 Inde- cal parties contested the I 2019, which is an in- While three were proxy. yoters and there were com. pendent candidates of Parliamentary polls.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 174935.png]
Rising Ocean Swells Are Smashing California's Signature Piers. New York Law Makes Polluters By AMY Q1N Pay on Climate and KATE SELIG The towering waves that have hammered California's coast this  07 week have been unusually de- By HILARY HOWARD structive, killing at least one per- Gov. Kathy Hochul of New York son and prompting warnings by officials to the public to stay away on Thursday signed a law that re- from the state's beaches. quires companies that are big fos-  The tumultuous surf also ripped sil fuel polluters to help pay to re- apart a historic wharf in Santa pair damage caused by extreme weather, which is becoming more Cruz, prompting new questions common because of greenhouse about the future of the state's be- gas emissions. loved piers, as the sea grows ever  more fierce amid climate change. The legislation, called the Cli- Every year, state and local offi- mate Change Superfund Act, cials-- often with community sup- mandates that the companies re- port  pour millions of dollars sponsible for the bulk of carbon into preserving the spindly wood- emissions buildup between 2000  and 2024 pay about $3 billion each en structures that have been a de- year for 25 years.. fining feature of California's coast- line dating back to the Gold Rush. "With nearly every record rain- fall, heat wave, and coastal storm,  In San Luis Obispo County, part New Yorkers are increasingly of the Cayucos Pier has been roped off since it was damaged in burdened with billions of dollars in health, safety, and environmen- a ferocious storm earlier this year. tal consequences due to polluters The partial closure came less than a decade after the pier underwent that have historically harmed our environment" Governor Hochul a $3.5 million renovation that was supposed to sustain the structure said.  The law was modeled on the for several decades. A building riding the ocean surf after a wharf partially collapsed Monday in Santa Cruz, Calif.  In San Diego, the Ocean Beach original Superfund Iaw, which was pier, a nearly 2,000-foot concrete established in 1980 and requires structure built in 1966, has been year. Earlier damage to the Santa powerful waves began to thrash *In a world of climate change, companies to pay for the cleanup closed indefinitely, as city officials Cruz Wharf, which was built in the state's coastline. Three of the do you simply say, 'That was that,. of toxic waste wrought by inci- dents like oil and chemical spills. explore replacing it after having  1914 and is now the Iongest pier on workers - two engineers and a  and we're going to put everything spent more than $1.7 million on re- the West Coast, led city officials to project manager -- were launched New York's new law focuses on pairs following storms over the begin a $4 million restoration into the water. They were rescued pollution produced by the com- Keeley, the mayor of Santa Cruz, past five years. project this year.. and reported no injuries, accord- bustion of fossil fuels, which re- said. "I'm not as sanguine about  And in Santa Cruz County, three A team of workers was inspect- ing to officials. The entire wharf sults in the warming of the atmos- that." wooden piers have been damaged will remain closed until further phere, causing extreme weather, ing the section of the wharf that About 15 miles down the coast or destroyed in storms and haz- was under renovation and closed notice and next steps are uncer- like floods and storms, to be more ardous ocean swells since last to the public on Monday when. tain, city officials said on Tuesday. Continued on Page A12 Continued on Page A12

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 175821.png]
Donald Trump threatens BRICS with 100% tariffs US Presldent-elect warns against trying to undercut the dollar T.ESHI SEL! a aw. Oety Trump picks Us Presldent-elect Donald Trump on Sunday threatened to Kash Patel as Impose ? 100s tariff on the BRICS bloc nations, whlch in- new FBI chief clude Indha. If they try to under. mine the US dalar. *Tne Idea that the BRICS countries are Agencies trylng to move sway from the Doltar whike we stand by and US Presldent-elect Donald watch is over. We requlre a com- Trump on Sunday tapped Indl. mitmnt.. thatthey wi nelther Deca ld Iremo an Amcrlcan Kahy'ap Kash Pa- create a new BRlCS Currency, tel, 4t, to head the Federal Bu- nor back any other Currency to reau of Investigation (FBI). replace the m1 ght y US Dorar or. 'Urr ealistlc threat' If confirmed, Pattl would re. they win ace k0 percent Tar iffs Trump's threat Is unrea ustkc. place Christopher Wray, who and should expect to say good- thdnk tank The Global Trade was chosen by Trump in hls bye to selling Intothe wondernu Restarc h initiative said Arst ter m as president In 2017. U.S. Econonry* Trump wrote on on Sunday. It sald tarlffs of FBI directors are appointed to his Truth Social website. ths scale would harm the US 10-year terms to Insulate the bu- Trump said there is 'no consumers on y as It would reau from politics. chance* BRICS wi replace the push prices on Imports, A fierce Trump byalist and a US dollar In tlobal trade and dsrupt giobal trade. and rtsk vocal critic of *drep state', Pate! any counuy that tries to make retaatlon fsom key partners 1s eqected to cut down t he F1r's that happen *should wave good. footprint. In a recent Interview, byt to America.* The statement he sald he comes in the backdrop of the The lopic had come updurtng would close BRICS sumunIt heId 1n October the recent summit of the BRICS. down the 1n tht Rusian d ty f Kazandis- where Russian President FBI's head. cussing ways to boost nondol Vladimtr Pu in acrused the US quarters in lar transactlons and Iocal of *weaponising* the dollar to Washington currencks. target rivals. "it's nat us who ond *reopen 1t Indta is not in favour of a refuse to use the dollar." Putin the next day common BRICS currency Ex- had sald at the time. *But 1f 4s a muscum ternal Affalrs Alin ster S Jals- they don't Iet us wort, what can of the deep state". He sald he hankar has more thanonce clar. We do? We are forced to search. send the 7,00-odd employees 1fed that there k no plan to co for aIternatlves." work Ing 1n that bui kilng across for a common BRiCS currency Russla Is pushing far the crea- America to chase criminals. In October, h ile answ ering a tlon of a new payment system Patel served In several posts queston on de dollart satlon at that would affer an alternathe during Trunp's flrst term, In- an erent hosted by Washingt on- to the giobal bank messaging cluding ast Chief df Staff toSec-. based think tank Carne gie En- network, SWrT and albw Mos- retary df Defense. dowment Jatshankar satd Ind a cow to dodg. Wexern sanctlons A son of Indtan Immtgrants. has no pdicy to target the dol- and trade with partners. Patel has comniented on the de- lar, tlding that lt only looks at BRICS is an intereovernnen- velopmenta In Indla. Earlier alternative currencies while tal organisation comprising. this year, he had voted support dealing with trade partners who nine countries -- Frazil, Raxssia, for the Ayodhya Ram Temple. do not havt access to dollac. India, China, South Africa. He has also alkeged there is s In that cmntext Trump's mes- Egypt. Mhlopta, Iran, and the disinformation campaign in sace is seen as malnly targeted Cnlted Arab Emirates Washlngton targeting Prlme At Russ ta and China. (Whth tnpuis from asex ks) Mintster Narendra Modl.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 175845.png]
Nine killed as Fengal drowns Pondy, V'puram. 7 trapped in Annamalaiyar Hill landslide RAJaLAKshmI SAhpATH AT Ieast seven persons, includ- Ins fve children, are feared trapped Inside a house beneath - landsllde near the lower slopes of the Annamalaiyar 3mars j dr pcsK uo Lusaqpnpay u 1axc wqt ara ce 3asa sucqeJaco atxasn paIctaa axo g atodsyJa srstg jrucqe n >41 Hill in Tiruvannamalal district on Sunday Es press new's sesyice o ornne. The landslide, which oc. TN to ask centre to serd Man steps on live wlre, curred around 430 pm, was SLOW MOV1NC qcknlc stor m teams to assess damage kdlled In Ambattur trigcend by incessant rain 'Fengal' has brought unprece- Orennat Chlet Munster M K Oennat A 27-year-old man brought by cyclone Fengal. Res- dented rainfall to Villupuram $4 3ow pes Aepuns uo uge?s ded of ele tocut on in cue operations were halted by and Puduchcrry. where It made State government wll request Ambattur on Saturday nlght. Sunday nfght due to raln and Landfall shortly before Satur the centre to send a team to Accordang to police, Vignesh of possibility of more landsides. day midnight. Torrent lal rains A$sess the damaft cauted ty Kall ikppam, was on hs way The Nati onal Dia ster Res ponse tashd Vithupuram, Iuduch- Cyc lone Ferga! In Tn. DyCM back home trom work wten he Force has been asked to take erry and surrounding areas Udhaaddt Stalin and five acc identa#y stepped on a Wer from Manday moming. from Saturday nlght, resulting minlsters have been deputed sapped electre cab!e. He was According to officlals. the In the unlon territory recad- to coordnateretef efforts n rushed to a hospkal but w3s trapped persons have been ing 49 cm df rainfall, the high- Vhuptran aad Cuddalore |P4 declared dead on arrtal. identified as Rajkumar, his c$t in itt hlstory and the auto wife Niecna thelrtuo children matic weather statlan In and his brothertn-law's three Mailam registering 5lcm, the dalore, Villupuram, Puduch- reported there, officials said. children. p9 highest euer rearoed in VIu erry and Krishnagirl, will On Saturday. between 8.30 puram dtstrict. remain ckosed on Monday due am and 730 pm, I'uducherry Accordlnu tooflctad sources. to the ralns. recelved 9.scm of ralnfall. at least four people dicd in ratn? The record brtakinc rainfall whte Mallam In Villupuram related incidents in P'uduch- resulted in resldential areas district, recelved 13.fem. lty crry. thrte In Tlruvannamaia1 and arterial roads In Puduch nlght. the showers began to in. and one cach in V'ellore and erry belns compktely flooded Iensfy and by Sunday morn- Chennal districts. and the Uppanar canal over. Ing  21 houn ending at 8.30 Schools In Vellore, Ranlpet. whe lmed. Parts of Villupuram am - Mallan had recorded a Tlrupattur. Dharmapur! and district were also heavily in- Stagcering slcm of raintail. Salem, and both school and cul undated. however, no deaths followed by the unfon territory Ieges In Ttrrvanmamalai, Cu- related to the rain have been with 49cm. p3,4& 5

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 180304.png]
CCI launches probe against Google ExpRess neWs SeRVICE download the app on Androi #ew Q Google devices, misicading warnings are displayed, whch WinZo THE Comprtltion Cotnm lsslon clalns tarnlsh its reputation. of India (CCI) on Thursday The CCI has taken notlct of laundhed an Investigation Into these allegations and ordered Google after onllne gaming an 1nvestigatkon 1nto Google's frm WinZo accused the US bustness prac tices citing con- tech giant of anticompetithve Distributlon Agreement and cer ns over discriminat ory con- pract lces. In the order, the reg. Developer Program Policlet duct. The regulator noted that uator asked its directorgener. are one-slded, adding that exchskn from the Hay Store is al to wrap up the probe and Coogle restricts hosting of tant amount to denial df market submit a report In go day's. cam ing appltcat lons that offer acess.As for the disclaimer WinZo, an online gaming Real Mioney Games (RMP) tn that pops up while download. platform, has alleged that India.As a result,customers ing the app, the CCI said the Google's policies for hostins are foreed to download the Win- warning is pecullar to the apps on the I'tay Store are un- 7o app from its website. Googleoperated Androld OS falr It says Googe's Devtloper Additlonally. when users and 1s completely 1Eegal.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-27 180319.png]
College girl confined and raped for 2 days, 1 held tion Is suill undtr way." Mayl. Yt ar I3 Com In a colle ge in May. perpetrators in a car on Laduthural SP C Stalin told laduthural. A Abinath a 20- Wednesday. Da suspected gang rape of 17- TNIE. year-old resldent of Me anxhlle, the elri's parents yearold college girt, one per K Rekha, Distrlet Chitd Pro Maylladuthural, estabtished Aled a missing complaint in son w'as ar rested under Pocso tection Officer Incharge of contact with her through Insta- Tiruvarur on Tuesday and in Act and remanded in Jud icial Maylladuthural. sald. gram and befriended her. Mayiladut mral on Wednesday custody on Thursday and at *The vletim told our Abinath met the girl at after they were unable to re ach Past five more, Including a Ju- counsellors that she was Tiruvarur Bus Stand on her. The vie tim was rescued on wnlle, are under investlgat ton sexually assaulted by 0 Monday afkrnoon, and Wednesday. and a Focso case In Mayiladuthural. The cirl multiple peopie over alle gedly took her to a vil- was regtstered at the Mayl. was allegedly illegally deta lned days. But we are waiting Lage near Mayiladuthural laduthural All Women Police br two days at a seciurted spot for the tnitial police probe to be where he sexually assaulted Station on Thursday. Ioltce lat. and serually assaulted by the campleted.* her. She was alle gedly ke pt un- er arrested Abinath and pro- accusel. According to sources, the der illegal confinement and duced him before a magistrate -We are walt ins for the final Viatim, who is from Tiuvarur Was dronped near the May!. and remanded him in judica1 medical report and investiga- district, was doing her flrst. Jaduthural bus stand by the custody. p7

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 174136.png]
Mexican Cartel's Fatal Fentanyl Experiments the synthetic opioid have made it Hens and Humans Are harder for these criminal groups By NATALIE KITROEFF and PALLINA VILLEGAS to find the chemical compounds Used to Test Drugs. CULIACAN, Mexico - The car- they need to produce the drug. The original source, China, has re- tel operatives came to the home- stricted exports of the necessary less encampment carrying sy- ringes filled with their latest fen- snapping phoxos and flming his raw ingredients, pushing the car- tanyl formula, The offer was sim- reaction. He survived, but he said tels to come up wah new and ex- he saw many others who did not. tremely risky ways to maintain ple, according to two men living at "When it's really strong,  fentanyl production and potency. the camp in northrwest Mexico: up to $30 for anyone willing to inject knocks you out or kills you," said The experimentation, members themselves wah the concoction. Mr. Lopez Camacho of the drugs of the cartels say, involves com- One of the men, Pedro Lopez bining the drug with a wider range Camacho, said he volunteered re- people here died.*. of additives - inchding animal This is bow far Mexican cartels sedatives and other dangerous peatedly -- at times the opera- tives were visiting every day. will go to dominate the fentanyl anesthetics. To test their results, They watched the drug take ef- business. the iminals who make the fen- fect, Mr. Lopez Camacho said, Global efforts to crack down on Continued on Page I! Pedro Lopez Camacho said he let cartel operatives inject him with their fentanyl formulas.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 174208.png]
Despite Risks, ISRAELI AGENCIES E.P.A. Backs BURROWED DEEP Toxic Fertilizer INTO HEZBOLLAH Alerted About Forever Chemicals' in 2003 IRAN PROXY DECIMATED By HIROKO TABUCHI Years of Intelligence Led In earty 2000, sclenlsts at 3M. the cthemleats glant, made a star- to Pager Blasts and tng dscovery: Hlgh Ievels  Nasrallah Killing PFAS, the vtrtualty indestnxcttle "forever chemicals* used in nan- stck pans, stain-resistant carpets and many other products were This artick is by Mark Maz;etli, turntng up in the nation's sewage. Sheera Frenke! Ro ntn The researcters were con- Bergman. cerned. The data suggested thar TEL AVIV - Rlgtht up untll be the toxle chemicals, made by 3M, was assasstnated, Hassan Nasral were fast becomtng ublquxous in Lah dld noxt beileve that Israel the emvtronment. The company's WF4 IPI PTOM research had already linked expo. As be haunkered Inslde a Hezbo! sure to bdrth defects, cancer and Lah fortress 40 feet underground. Mxre. on Sept. 27, hls aldes urged hdm to That se wage wss belng used as go to a safer location. Mr Nasral Tertltzer on farmtand natlonwide. Lah brushed it okt, according to in- a practice encouraged by the En- tetgence cotected by Israel and vtronmental Protectlon Agency Shared later with Western alles. The presence of PFAS n the In hts vlew, Israel had no tnerest sewage meant those chemicals In a ful scale war. were betng unwittingty spread on What be dld not reatl ze was th9t Helds across the counury Israell spy agenctes were tracidng 3M1 dxtn^t pubtish the research, his every movement -- and had. but the company tid share its tnd- been doing so for years. 1ngs wth the E.PA. af a 2003 Not long after, Israetl F-15 jets meeting, according to 3M docu- dropped thousands of pounds of mens reviewed by the The New exploaves, obtterating the York Times. The research and the bunker tn a blast that buried Mr. EPAs knowledge of it has nxx Nasraah and other top Hezbol  been prevtousty reparted. lah commanders. The next day. Today, the EPA. candnues to Mc. Nasrah's body wat tound in promote sewage siudge as fertl. an embrace with a top Irantan tzer and doesn't requlre testing fr general based in Lebanon. Both PFAs, despite the tact that whts- men dled cf suffocatlon, the Inteil- Ue-blowers, academlcs, state cff- gence found, accorting to several dals and the agency's intemal people with knowtedge of it. stuties over the years have also The desth of Hezbollah's feared ralsed contaminat kon concems. leader, wto for decades com- "These are hlgthy complex mtx- manded a Lebanese mdltia In its tures of chemcals, said Davld Agha against the Israel state, was Lewis, a former E PA, mlcrobloto- the cuiminatlon of a rwo-week of- gist who In the tate 1990s lssued fenuve. The campalgn comtined Warndngs of the risks in spreading covert technologlcal wlzardry shdge on farmtand. wth brrte mlltary force, Indud. The sott -becomes essendally ing remote detonation of explo. permanenty contamtnated" he stves hidden in thousands cf sald in a recent Intervtew trom hls pagers and wallde talkdes used by home in Geargla. Hezbottah, as we as a wthering The concerns ratsed by Dr. aerial bombardment with the atm Lewis and others went unheeded Of destroying thousands of mit- at the time. slles and rockets capable cf hitlng The country I starting to wake Israel. up to the consequences. PFAS, It was a'so the restlt of rwo dec- ngAqod pue -sad Jo] spue1s yaqqs ades of methodlcal Intellgence oroaikyl saubstances, has been de- wark in preparaton for an a"-out tected in sewage siudge, on land war that many expected would evenualy come. A New York across the country, and in mik Times investigatlon, based on in- Costtinued ont Page 19 Continued on Page I2

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 174627.png]
Clear skies bring T'gana sees 33% surge in colder nights in T FDI, Hyd tops Times News Network Suman Rcddy D Hyderabad: The inflow of fo. reign direct investment to Te- langana has increased signifi- cantly this year, with the state receiving <12,864 crore in the six months between April and Sept. Thestate got <9,679 crore for the corresponding period last year. Investments were 3,185 crore more than last ye. ar. A growth of almost 33%: in FDI was recorded, according Children gather around a bonfire to warm themselves on a cold to the CMO. winter night at Ranigunj in Secunderabad on Saturday As per the details released by the Union industries mini- Amisha.RaJani Several districts, inclu- stry and internal trade, Te- @timesofindia.com ding Rangareddy and Med- langana ranks sixth in the co- ak, recorded minimum tem- untry when considering in- Hyderabad: After a week of peratures between 13.5C vestments for the specified gloomy weather and rain- and 14.3C. Hyderabad, at six-month period. Maharash- fall, Telangana is experien- 15.3C, was slightly warmer tra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Del. cing a dip in minimum tem. but still cooler than usual. hi, and Tamil Nadu are in the peratures as clouds move to- The temperature drop is top five. Almost 93% of the to- wards northern parts of In. attributed to the clearing of tal FDI received in the stateca- dia. According to the India clouds, allowingcolder nort- me from Hyderabad. The state Meteorological Department hern winds to impact the re- capital received 211,970 crore, (IMD). Saturday's district- gion. "While nights are ex- Rangareddy received <680.5 wise data shows Kohir in pected to remain cold, dayti- crore, Mahabubnagar got Sangareddy recorded the Io- me temperatures are predic- <116.7 crore, and Medak recei- west temperature at 13.1 tedtoriseabove27'C,"saida ved <96.99crore, said the CM1O. Celsius. senior IMD official.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 174828.png]
Centre puts tungsten Mero Shyam kantha parey....  mining in TN on hold ExPRess NEWs SERyIce @Chem. given to Hindustan Zinc Limited and not to grant any mininglicence. THE Ministry of Mines on Tuesday in the future without the permis. requested the Tamil Nadu govern- sion of the state government. ment to keep theprocess of issuing Speaking in the Assembly, Chief the Letter of Intent (Lol)to thepre. Minister MK Stalin had declared ferred bidder, Hindustan Zinc Lim. that as long as he is the CM, the ited, for mining of tungsteninNay. state government will never allow akkarpatti Tungsten Block in tungsten mining in Madurai dis. Madurai on hold. trict. The chief minister had also It has cited objections relating to urged Prime Minister Narendra auctioningof the block over the Modi to cancel the award of existence of biodiversity her- tungsten miningrights. yamBenega itage site within block area. The mines ministry had cyun The Geological Survey of earlier said that inputs were 1934-2024 India (GSI) has been asked taken from the Tamil Nadu to explore the possibility of government before the auc. redefining the block bounda- tion of the tungsten block and ry by excluding the biodiversity no communication from any site, a press statement issued by the quarter, including from the state, MANUSPEAK  ministry on Tuesday said. regarding any opposition to the TNIE was the first to report tender was received. LAPSE YES BUT MOTIVATED about the plan to mine molybde- The statement by the mines min- num and tungsten in Tamil Nadu. istry on Tuesday also said that sec. Olympics double medallist Manu The ministry's announcement retary of the ministry, in a letter Bhaker said *there has been a has come two weeks after Tamil dated December 6, 2023, sent to lapse" from her side while filing Nadu Assembly on December 9 Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu re. nominations for awards but says unanimously adopted a resolution  quested details of three critical she is motivated to win medals| p15 urging the centre to immediately mineral blocks to beput up for auc. cancel the tungsten mining rights tion indudingNayakkarpatti. P7

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 174957.png]
Memorial space to be allocated after today's cremation: Goyt Funeral at 1l.45 am at Deihi's Nigambodh Ghat crematorium, sayshome minlstry  HODI AmONG First to pay HOMAGE tacue srw oqw De lust naes to pay homage to Saaara Wath on Fercay. Sad the degth nas at# less ad tre. notatste trsalers Priee Hrester Narens a Moda pars hrs tast nsects ts foentr peme ma wer Maanct an Segh ia Nen Oethd cn Fad ar I r! PReeTha NAIt # Nw Cstd hold Dr Singh's last rites, w hich Kharge and Singh's family that PErsOnAl will take place tomorrow at h! the covernmtnt would allocale Loss, says AHAD) of for mer Ir1me Mtn- Anal resting place that xoul! space for the memorlal In t he SONIA Ister Manmohan Singh's final be a sacrosanct vemue for a me- me anxhile, cremation and oth- rites w1th full state honours. morial of the sreat son of In. er farmallties can happen be. Termuag hts drath the Congress on Friday re. dia. This is in keeping with cause a Trust has to be formed I'persenal toss. quested the Cnlon covernment such traditlon of having me. Cor gess kader and s pace has to be allocated to S G for a re sttne plact for him along morlals of statesmen and 1t, the home mtntttry sald. Signfcantly, it was the LPA Fnday said$rg the banks of the Yamuna in former Prtme Ainisters at the Delh1. where many former PMs Was her tr iens. very place of thelr funerals.* gover nment headed by Singh Fe?   C p have thetr memortals. A communlcation from the that decided in 3013 thax there Fade Se wd The Centre toId the Congress Minlstry of Home Affairs in woud be no se parate memorl- Sngs kaves a voad brass to conduct the funeral at the cvening sald Singh's Last als for VVIPs in Delh1 and de-  t$e aatie al Ue the Ntgambodh Ghat cremato- rites w'1ll be conducted at 11.45 clded to have a common com- thatcn't te fed rlum on Saturday as scheduled am on Saturday at the Nigam.  plex Fr memcrtals of departed whlle it will consider the re- bodh Chat crematorium with natlonal Icaders like Presl. quest for a nem crial later. Lat. State hanours. After a Cabinet dents, Vice Presidents and Singh's final. er. the Cnion home mlnistry meeting Uni on home minister Prime Ministers. PROCESSION safd the government will allo- Amit Shah communlcated to In the condolence retolut lon AT 9.30 AM cate space for a me morial, add. passed at its meeting the Can- On Satadar. ns ing it has been communicated gress Working Committee morta remans to his famity and Caneress (CwC) pald tributes to Singh. wlte takea to president Mallik arjun Kharge. sayinghe wasa touering figure ACC hat  an. In his letter to Prime Minis- He keft hds knorint on cx na tonat InIndia's polltical and econom- Wte. The na ton has lost an e mnent here pa ty catre ter Narendra Mod1, Kharge 1c landscape whose contribu- state snar, renowted eonomkt and and the ptk cas said: -Apropos our telephonic tions transfor med the country a d st kgutshed le ad e offer uon tes. Ihe conversatlon today morning. and earned him respect Restprocesice wherein 1 made a request to Urien Cabiret wesehst ion. worldwide to 1he  ematecn Foeed m.3 depart MIANNOLANSINCL REL IEWEI Ge ce61!

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 175036.png]
at 930 am Wndan w ntoor? MANMOHAN SINGH BELIEVED IN GROWTH WITH EQUITY CHAMPIONOF InDO-U.S. TIES: BLINKEN shift was made in 1991, by consensus. He did not have US Secretary of Singh as Finance Minister the luxury of a brute majority State Antony KAPIL SIBAL with India's balance of pay. in the Lok Sabha and there. 8linken said Jerter ol Rajya Ss tha ments in deep crisis. His eco. fore, had to navigate his poli- Singh was one nomic liberalisation policy cies through dialogue both. of the greatest paved the way for what India with his coalition partners champions of RManmohan Singhe is today. Every sector of the and the opposition. The dia. US-India stra tegic belongs to an era economy moved away from logues, withhis coalitionpart- par tnership who when politicians the license quota raj and from ners, allowed him to make brought the to a 3.3% growth rate prior to countries closer were respected for some monumental decisions. allowing institu- 1991, we in the 1990s witness. The Right to Information tions to flourish. It. ing India's GDP growing at Act, 2005, brought about enor- is not as if there 6%. Between 2004 and 2014, mous transparency in the were no aberrations in the GDP growth averaged 7.7% process of decision making. past. By and large, the spirit with 8.1% average growth be- With information availableto. of the Constitution was hon-. tween 2001 and 2009. cit izens, government could be oured by those in power. Even Those were golden years, held accountable, making when Atal Bihari Vajpayee when India's growth story transparency a policy pre. was the Prime Minister (1999. was lauded internationally scription. The Right to Free 2001), he respeced and heard  and 271 million people moved and Compulsory Education ASTATESMAN the voice of the opposition. above the poverty line. Eco. Act, 2009, allowed25% of chil. UKENO Narasimha Rao, on one occa. nomic growth during these dren belonging to the poor Other: PUTiIN sion, requested Vajpayee, who years was tempered with eq. and marginalised communi- Aussian President was the Leader of Opposition uity. Singh believed that ties to be admitted to private Madimir Putin at the time, to lead a delega- growth without equity, is not schoolswhere theireducation desc rbed fomer tion to the UN. It was during the path India should tread. wassubsidised from Class I to prime minis ter those years that Manmohan His commitment to Parlia- Class VIII. These changes in Manmohan Singh, from being a bureau. ment and Parliamentary in.  many senses recognised that Singh asan crat, who served the nat ion in. stitutions wasunmatched. He. unlesspeople at the bottom of outs tanding several capacities, became the sat through the debates, lis. the pyramid have opportuni- statesman who Prime Minister in 2001.. tening to the opposition and ties, India will continue to be eeva ted India- The opening up of the In- attempted, to the extent pos. an iniquitous society. Aussia ties to  dian economy, when a radical sible, to move forward with CONTiNUEd ON:P11 grea ter heights

[Extracted from Screenshot 2024-12-29 175202.png]
66 Film personalities qucued up to express solidarity with Allu Arjun. What did he Iose? Did he lose his eyes. legs or hands or suffered any kidney ailment? A Rcvanth Reudy chicf mi restcT Chef Mtrster A Aevach Erd3y Speaks in te Assexbly en iae iast dey ct tte seison CM: Ye kaisa insan hain Allu Arjun? Express news seavice where ADIM Legislative Par- O hy det ad ty leader Akbaruddin Owaisi It's attempt to assassinate ratsd concxrns about the fim CHIEF Minister A Revanth star's insensitive remarks Reddy once agaln took Tolly. about hls movle belng a *hlt.* my character: Allu Arjun wood actor Allu Arfun to tsk even after the #t ampede. for the stampede that occurred Akbaruddin Owaisi also at Sandhy'a Thcatre. Duringthe asked whether the actor con- Chi tha lusi Reyanth onyxsntad premlere of Iushpa-2, a wom- ducted a road show after the an lost her life, and her &year. $ tampedle. ASSERTING that the stampede at Sandhya Theatre on De- old san suffertd at Res ponding lo t he ct mber 4 was purely an accldent, actor Ailu Arjun on Satur phyxiatlon. He has No special query Revant h Red- day said that there was no fault on part of anyane. been battlingfor life PRIVILEGES IF dy wondered what Respondlng to Chlef Milnl ster Reranth Reddy^s conmetts In hospltal. Death happens type of human Allu 1n the sttt Le gstative Assembly carlier in the day cvtr the The CMI sald that Arjun was. refer.- Stampedke, the lrushpa 2 actar told reporters tn the evening Chiet Min& ter Alu Arjun acted 1n- ring to the latter's that there was a lot of misinformation to assassinate his humanely cun aAer A Revanth Reddy road show ertn af. st ated that hls character Ctalmine thx ht tarned a the death  a wom- ter the uncontrolla sood re put ation, Allu Arjun said an. He also er. Sovenment wouid ble situation at the that false allegatlons were ly. pressed unhappl. not grant spec ial Drtvieges to film theatre. tIled agatnst hlm over hts behay. ness wlth film "Allu Arjun didn't Jour at the the atre. He recalled that personalities er. Industry in c ases Itsten when an ACP ho vlsited the InJured fans of Involving kss of lit e tending sotidarity to asked him to Ieave Chtranjeevi and others In Wjayawa Allu Arjun rather the theatre. Zab- da and other places. connnUED on p4 than supnorting the chtd un- ardastl se hamara DCP' wo heto dergoing treat ment. ko Law and crder sinntion dekh *-Fim personalit ies queued kar baahar Ie ke aaye. Bahar after he was brought out from that the crew of Puhpa-2 in- up to erpress solidarity with gaadi mein baithne ke baad. the theatre, he waved at the chuding Allu Arjun v1 stted the Allu Arjun What did he lose? jate waqt phir roofop nikal kar people from his vehlcle by theatre despite police reject ing Did he lose hls eyes, legs or phir logon ko wave kar raha. opening the rooftop. Man, ahat pernlsslon on December 3 1n hands or suffered any kidney Hhal hey kalsa insan hain? Kind df person ts he? Whxt can Iesponse to a request. ailment!" he questioned. Hum Iog kya bolna (Our DCP. we sayt* And, I can't sit quiedly The CM also said that Allu This response came durins a notcing the law and ordrr situ In the (CM's) cha1r." he Arjun be haved ruiely with the short d1scusslon on *Rythu atlon, had to step tn and force remarked. potte cfnctals hen they went Bharusa' In the state Assemtly. the hero to come outs lde. Even He lnformed the Assembly to arrest him. contnueoonp4

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 200817.png]
Capital's December power demand soars to record high TRIDUne NEwS SEmICE XEW DELHI, DECEMBLA 31 Phurnmetngtempxratun's in Delhi Ird to an unprrordent. ed suge in pouer demand. with December recurding - pwak of5,213 2fW- the high- e3t cvet for the month. Fr the frst time in Dei's Janod yead an Kowy dhsnard n Drremxs has sn podthe 5 00 MW mark, Du- Aps3nL u p! qPgo um The State Load Dispatch Congress candidate Sandeep Dhshit addtresses the medla In New Deni on Tue stay wws aanan shuy Centre (SLDC) repurted tha! power demand hit 5.213 MW Will file defamation suits against at 10:50 AM1 on Tuexday after reachirg 5.04c M1W on Mion- day This marksa signfkan! Atishi, AAP MP: Cong's Dikshit rse compaed to December peaks of 4.834 MW n 3023 and 4,901 3fW in 2032. BRIBERY. ALLEGATIONS ence here, Dik shit strorgly The fomer East Denl MP. Adiscom dffrial said *This rejected the accustions and who k contesting against Is an e xtrardinary mle stone TRIRUNE NEWs SERVICe xcurd the AAP of targel- AAP's Arind Kejmal m the as Dihi's power consump- ing hin and hus faniy for New Dehi corst# urncy, alm tion contirxes to brcak New deuIL, decenBea S1 Over a decade. teferred to an allcged mect recorda. The rshg winter Congresr Ieader Sandeep *Fie to six days ago, Dehi Ing between BJP leaders and demard mirrurs the recur. Dik shit on  Tuesday CAi Atishi saidthat I am tak. Kejriual shortly after he bresking summer pxak o! announrrd thal he wD AIe ing a hu ge amount cf money broame the Chirt Ministr. 8,656 MW thia ycat* defamatian suit aganst from the BJP. For the pest "BJP's Viay Kumar Mi. Ofcials anticipate that Denl Chief linister Atishi 1012 years. they have tar. hotra td me about a meet- the peak pouer demand and AAP Rajya Sabho MP geted the Congress, me and ingwhere the RJPdrhgation this winter coud excred Sartay Sangh folkuing their my famuly* Dkshut said. asked Krrwal ar euknr 6,300 MW, setting yet anoth- ailegations that he tock *I hase scveral questioms against the Shcla Dikshit er recad for the capital's money from the BJP. fxr AAP that go bock oer the Avenment. Kejriwal pouer consumption. Addressing a press conkr pasut 10-12 years,* hesaid. CONTINUED ON PAGE 3

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 200832.png]
Delhi Police bust drug cartel, arrest. four with 30-kg psychotropic tablets Nabdrugtraffidker, two Nigerian nationals with heroin in separate cases SAMAD HOqUe port at ion of drugs. (23) from near the Karkar. leam rided s house or Arung on a up-off regard- dooma Mletro station on Novembr 1a When they IW DFLH,DICMEA 31 ng a drug shipment near December 23. found the houx boked, thej he Ddhd Poace claiaed to Sonin Vihat the ANTF artett. The potice said Shukda and contacted the landlord. With nve busted a drug cartel ard ed Laxman 32 and Parkaj Tanishq. a residert of Karau. the hep of the Iandord, the, eized psychotropic drugs CayL 8Z aqua\oy wo (8I) a Nagr, Delhi, uwd to wurk managed to nab Saplu (23) vth the anea df aur pxr- reowed 2T kgs d aiprazo- a$ driney *pnts sor supply During checking, 170 gram! ons They a'o arrestrd an Fn tablets from theirpoxcs- of gantric medidnts. Tan- of herci wss recovc rd fro. nterstate drug tra#cker and sion, the pure sid. shq tdd Shuxta about the the house," the DCP said wo Nigerin natiorak for Pased on their discbsure, supply of aprazdam tabets *During  investigatior. uning a nuco syndxcate in the Oime Iranch raided a +Iatr, the duo startd do- Saplu admittd to hi rparate caca poxe oticialy godoun. Apoorya Cupts. tributing psychotopic sub- irvohement inseaing hcruir aid on Tuesday. DCP tCrine Brandh) ANTE stances across Dehi and with his accomplxe Sonu,  The ArtiNarcotics Tak NCR.* the DCP added. res ident of Binauat Badqur. brce (ANTF) df the Crime a gouwn in Lonl, Uttar In another case, the ANTF UP, in areas such as Burat Brnch dismantled a drug Paksh, kaling to the reoy. Crume Brankh, unkr Ux and Reragarhl tin D-Ih," ur atel opcratng acros Ddhi cry of additional 2.4 kg of superirion of DCP Apoorya Olxial said. ind NCR suppbing py- aprazoam tahet. The Gupta, apprehended an inter- The police sid Sph hotropic substance - alpr3- souown reportedly belonged state drug traffrker and reveald that Sunu procured plum tabhts. to An kt Shuk u*. noveted 170 grams of hero- hesin fron hs sxres b 3 oe p lxI aygod 3yl. *After raids across Deihi- n bon him. Barriy, U, and thc lttr wa! equkalent to 2Iakh pis} of NCR and Uttr Pradesh -pc3u Dodn o wo #n- certer ako mutvedincritin? Iprardam tabets worth Ankit Shuka 2) ws appre ng two ndkidu!s Sonu actkities, irchalng tuo srm pprmimately Rs 1 crore in henled on December 16 frm anxd Saphs, rs iknts of Urtar X1 cars anl cne NDPScawe. he International market. Gonda, UIT* the DCP saxd. Pradesh, tnvolvd in the sup. Marruhie, the pohce arest They a'so scized three Acting on - tip-off. the pty of hercin and opiun in ed two Nigerian nationa end notrcy'dies being fr trane. police arrested Tanithq  Jahangirpuri area, Delhi, the CONTINUED ON PAGE J

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 200938.png]
Cops gear up for New Year's Eve  82K applications received Deploy quick reaction teams, PCR vans to ensure peaceful celebrations for voter deletion, says CEO TRmUNE NEWs STRyICr Got over 4.8L forms for newvoter registrationssince Nov 29. AEW DEHI, DEC UBEA JO As the cty gears up to we. TRIBUne NeW's SERICe ment using Furm 6, which is xheduled far pubbcstion. <ome the New Yrar, the De1hi requtes submission df sup- onJanuary6,2025, "the state. NEW DCLHI, DEceMBIA 30 porting docurnents for verih-ment said.. security arranguments scront Amid a political tue cation by the respective Recenty, FR uee ed San anus n Ap an betawn the AAP and the bouth Ieel affcer. Fum & againsl eght ndviluaks ar srocth cekbratons put RJP oer alrged voter ckle- and Form ? can bxe flkd ar subrittng false docunents ton tron the ckctoral rod3  modification or ddetion in fr woter regstration in the. Maak sid on Monday. sheod of the Asambly elec- t he ekctor al rull Okhla Assembly comtit uen. DCP (Scuth) Ankit tions here, the Chief Erctral *During the pretevision cyinDhid cuouppe pes uem Offce, Drhi, on Mondlay said! period, houx to house venf- The CiO, Dehl, said mret. potrding and speciaixd Rh rpcn t reccived &2 450 applicatioms cation was carnrd out fronings with reprexentatives of. unts had been deploed for dedetiom and 4.85.624 for Augut 30 to October 18 bypoitical particawere hcld on cross key areas to maint ain Aew regist ratiore till ate. 1. bouthlevel officere This September 4, Octuter 9 and Uw and onker. The Hrtion Canmksion exrcise aimd st kdrntrymg29 and Dcemter 10 and 21.d +Seruity chrckints with b cndurtng the srcial Untgistaredeligbk ateens. -A qod uns n aun uung. breath analyzet have been summary rerision of dee- pruspective voters turring 18 cal parties uure requexted to set u p at 21 strategic lcatiors A security ma n stands guard at Kartavya Path in New Demi. E Photo hanas aaan sd toral rolls with the qualirying by Qctober 1, 2025, as wel as assist the electoral aushori- date srt as Janu ary 1, 2025. pemanrntly shufted ar Tirs in Increasing the enrull- ment and prevent ary inci Surveitance, he adred. and ciema has. Iubic trar? mmt Suret and Carnsugu *As many as 4.83 521 appica- deraxrd ekiors and dups- ent ofyoung ekrctors in the dent relased to drunk driv. DCP Chouhan said the  points, inctding 21 bus Plxe, wtie Zone 2 incudes tora for new ngistations Cate cntries." the statement age group of 1&-19. In case. Ig. Quick reaction teams depbyment compriaesseven stops, are being m-nned by Chnakya Pui, Baraxhamta (Fbrm 6), 82.450 applicatiox Yurther aid. Jugry ars saued pongod (QRTs) are sawnd across Assistant Commis aoners  ahquate persnrd to prven Rod and Tughak Roal. Sr dddions (Rm 7) an) The draft electral rul was Any uujrctions to any ahd. 13 crnical points, wtwk 34 Fobrr,+0 inspectors 23 sub- Untoward ineidents. Vunra- A total of 64s pdxe perwn- 171 385 applratars kor mos- pxu bb shed cn Oct oxr 23, fod- tiontle krtions.noduicatnns PCR vans have bren strategi- insportors and a.stant sub- He rousts are beine patrolrd nd. 100 Home Cuard jrwans Ocations Frm 8 wcre lowing which the commis. carricd cut in the circton) caty phcd to ensure rapid nspectors, alarg with 130 by staff on 00 mxtoroces. and 11 companies of the received between Noember sion lrvited the putic to fle rol during the special sum. motilty and response to fem ale persnrel. CAPF hl been deployed. 99 and the present date.* the claims and abjedions. *All mary revsion period an! +m++geneas, he sand. In the mighbring South me arx! quick ntrrvntion aid ncr 1Nw' Drh) CHO Dihi sid ina starmen. clakns and chyectans during the cont inunus upxla- West District. DCP Surendr Devesh Kumar Mahla. Residents in Ddhi who reccived on November 23 tion, they can fle their objee- 70 strong picket fortifed Choudhary outlined a sini- nent hotek are a'so under *Ambularce, fire terders. have not yet registered as vot- were disposed of by Decem- tions before the odicals con- With barricles and breath  krly comprehensive plan to heightened seurty, whle jl tane, bomb disposal ers can still apply fur enroI. ber 2t, The fad ehrctoral rdl W yaet$ are mon iorng traf- hande the inux of crowdis Haur Khas Wtge. a maor #quxls anxd SWAT teams wil1 F and idk-nuying suspicous Stax>p *yj++ (Z 1!*$>H paty hub, hus bren assgrd XYjedL xqpu<x w) 3q oqt movrments Ceicbration ver  points with barriades and highvizibtty drpkymnt to Mmaro gr ment wil pizy a ou. Ues, induding 31 key kca. breath aralyars had been set dal rdle, with buser heoding. 6 held for forging voter ID cards craure tmooth and safe cele- ions, are under enhanced up, whte 14 quick reactian bratins, he added. towards Connaught Place weurity cowrage, whle 15 tams ha! been drpbyrd In tx Suth Wet datrict. bring dierted from 7 TM mals. motrb, cinema hals actoss xnsitive arstd Aven Axstant Conmb- onwards. The ext gates of TRImUnE NEws SrRTCE regixered at the Shaheen lodged a complaint aleging and other popular gathering *SicenPCRvars arettrte Jionert of Poice, 38 inspre- Rajiv Choxk Meto Station Bagh police station Accord- Spots are being strictly mon- Aealy posiboned fur quick tors, 329 sub>inspectors and! w1 be cIosed after 9 PI to EW IXLHI, DECE NBEA 30 ing to the puhce, the accused er IDregistratn and sdudrers itored. Secunty has also Rqxinse and 57 stung pickrts assistant subinspeciars and preve nt ove rcrowding. Stric! 1$aue aary a+mu nFd *LL ust Argrd Amdhaar cards change had btn submitted Ixen rtinsoreed at bus sopswith bunoads at mstoring 161 female personnel have decks will be conducted for ed six petsons invlved in and eretricity bils to creste u ang krgd doc unents. and critical rood routes, with trane nd identyire potantiol been deployed. violations of cxcice Irus ard forging voter ID cardt uting Ot mod ify vter ID cards A smihr complaint w perannel deployed cn 40 In New Dehi distict. public intoxication, with courterfeit duxuments in the The irnvestigatin began on fled on December 29, 2024, motrcyck s to e nsure quick Sxaal attentiun has ben Srangmentt hase bain dri. medbieal teams an! excise Shahren Bagh area, dffcials Dermbxr 25 wten Deiaal Ly the same offce, reporting response tnes. Addtirnal- ard on 35 keyctkbratxn ven- ed into two xnes unxks the inapectors deyloytd to mon- said on Akmday. Regtraton Offrer (ERO) another four aypbcators kx ly, cight prominent hotels u and 15 crouded publc Supavision cf snicr oeen. tor and cnforce reguh. The atrest were made fu. Viod Kumar of Assmbly new voter re gist ra tion based here are under heightened spacet such as mads, motet Zne 1 wves areas tke Parli- tions," he aid. Duing tuo seprate caser Corsttuency-51 (Okha) CONTINULD ON PAGE 3

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 201001.png]
Graphic designer, engineer among203 fakevisa agents arrested this year: Cops. SAMAD!OqUE STATE-WISE BREAK UP . PASPO NEW DELHII, DECLNBER 30 LOOKING BACK Punyas OL A graptic desiper ard an Horyana 32 ckuia) enpner were 2024 Delnd 25 arrested by the Dci Puxe Utr Pracesn 25 earter this yeer for runnirg a Lartory fr prolucing wunter 17 VISA feit visa, permmarent readent Ayear-end SpectAls 8 cards and hokgram. They Gyarat 7 Hais E0c ayn auaue aan Ra|xthon 4 apprtherdd in 2024, up from CATEGORY ARRESTS Ta mi1 Na du 3 98 the previous yra pdre Officials said on Monday. Fake s ba rackets 71 Kerala 3 In September. a passenger Donk'y routes 16 Bihar 2 approached for immigrat ion Imporsonzuon and Identity fraud 31 Telangam 1+ Ckarane intxiing to trard Rexsuing pessport Ior tlackisrd Individunlsd 3 Odsha to Rome on a Surdsh type C Fake sea mon books for illicit trae! 5 visa Hounet upon the Uttara khand 1 Foregn nstornls wt take Indian pasports 33 $crutiny of the documents. it Andhra Padesh was found that the riso was Tampering with passports/Immlgraton staaps 23 Bangladesh 1 fake whaut any sprcific UV Fasrying uave l histones whn take stangs 18 Jed 1 featues, Iatent image andd Traveting wih disguisod look 4 Myanmer Intagio murk. No deperture case. 9 Totat i 203 The poice said during the Intenogtan, Ux axused yrarohl agnt pnally vias fr mulupk countrxs qualdy rutatin Immigre pasxrnger disdosed that he paralysed, wto restaled that and runring his factory at his tion stamps, includang thoxe had arranged the visa fram Ake visas wee arranged residence in T2ak Nagar. used by foreign emboesies.d some boys in his village. The rom andher agert - Jasuant "The factory hxd the abi ity were recoered.These pokce bter arestd thrre Sngh- wtid trd to Manj to create counterfeil sias &x amps uer used to ater agents in conneetion withthe Monga. praphic desigrer an dext ina tions such a Canada. pasports and create fake caze. Thcir apprchension fur cxput n the deien and the nited States the UAE travel histories. The raid led ther led the pole to a 65- preparation of faxe sirker and European nat ions High- CONTINUED ON PAGE 3

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 201133.png]
Devotees Swear by 'Raw Water, Despite Risks fans are part of the so-called A Drink Untested, and By SOLMYA KARLAMANGLA health freedom movement, wtlch MARIN COUNTY, CaJi. - The Untreated, for Those bealth intervendons, Inchdang highway that wtnds along the Who Scorn Tape vaccine mandates, pasteurized coast of Marin Courty offers some mik and Quoridated water. They  Caluornda's most magnncent vstas, wth the deep blue Paciflc now have a powerful ally n Robert F. Kennedy Jc, who es- Ocean guttertng through vells of "To me, it feets more atlve,* said fog. But for a handful of travelers, pouses many of the same vlews, Samantha Relch, who collected 50 induding oppostion to fluort. *azjd y 1ue s.nah a1 gallons in water-cooler jugs that Dated water, and who Is Preskdent- At one bllnk-and-you'-mlss-!t she strapped into her sedan with seatbeits on a recent morning. elect Donald J. Trump's pick to pullout is a natural spring that Iead the Health and Human Sery. draw's people from acrost the San Ms. Relch, 27, ks among a sms Francisco Bay Area, some of number of spring water aficlona- Ices Department. (Mc. Kennedy whom drive hours through traffle dos who betleve untreated water, has yet to say whether he advo- cates drinldng raw water.) to get there. May of them reject or "raw water* contslns enrtching water from ary other source and mlnerals that are removed from The trend, bowever, atarms drink onty what they say is -quld tap water during the purlcatton health experts, who say that gokt* that gushes trom the copper process. spring water devotees are taking 3u ds oa poe no sadd Many of the spring's diehard Continued on Page A I3 A natural spring with so-called liquid gold draws people from across the San Francisco Bay Area.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 201211.png]
U.S. Is Investigating Deadly Attack by Pickup Driver as Act of Terrorism Thit articke it by Jeana Reasel, Swept through the French Quar. Keith Bradsher, Devlin Barret and ter searcting out suspiclous pack- Emiy Cochurane.d ages and other potentlal threats It was just after 3 am on  and evidence on Wednesday, the Wednesday, and whlle much oithe authorities wged the pubtic to country had atready gone to bed send tips to aid n the investiga- after toastmg the new year, the tlon and vowed to track down ey. party was stuI going - as it usu- eryone invatved in the attack. alty does -- on Bourton Street in +We have a plan, we know what New Orleans.. to do, and we will get these peo-  Then came the sound of a wtte pie," Anne Klrkpatrick, the New pickup truck, accelerating. In an Orleans potice superintendet, Instant, the cty's besu-knoan. sald af a news conference most popuar pubtic space was Wednesdgy atemoon. trartormed into a scene of death For residents watching the everns unfold, the day fex tright- -we beard hlm punch the gas ening and surreal., Bran O'Brlen, and then the impact and then the screams,* sald Kkmberty Stricktin, of Mobue, Ala, who watched with her hstand as the truck ca- reened onto Bourbon Street and slammed bao the crowd *It just look a moment to regteter, it was Just so frightening -- It was tike something out of a borror morte.* Mrs. Surtktin sad she was haunted by the memory of the sounds one victim had made, *I can't get over that girf's screams* she sald Descroed by the federal au- thoritles as a detiberate act of ter- A mT Anne Kirkpalrick, the city's ror, the attack kltled at least 15 police superintendent, said, people, wounded about three doz- en others and left New Orseans, a "We will get these people* dty of 364,000, on edge; 1m'estiga- lors sald st a news conference on 57, a tour gukde who tives a block Wednesday thax they beieved from Bouton Street, sald he that the driver dld not act alone. wokeon Wednesday to flnd a state The driver, who was koled in a trooper Inspecting a cocler stting Shootout wih the pokice, was lden- about I0o feet from hts stoop. Ac- tihied by the F.B.L as Shamtud- cordang to Mr. O'Erten, the oflcer Dln Bahar Jabbar, 4Z, a U.S. dtl- had sald the cooler contslned zen and U.S. Arry veteran from plpes, tape and lots of nalls, and a Texs. He had toaded hls rented bomb squad arrived soon after- truck weh weapons and af leas ward to detonate the contents. one *potentlat improvised exlo- Mr. O'Brien recaled bearing a sive, the authoritles sald, and an shout of -Fire In the hole!* whlle Isanic State flag was found on be sat, with hts ears covered, x a the traiter hutch of hls rented wtxe Ford plckup. safe distance. *I'm sull tn shock, Presldent Blden, in a short ad- he sald. dress at Camp David, sald that the To offcers were aounded when the potice exchanged gun- F.B.I. told ram that the driver had posted videos on sodal medla flre with the suspect after he had "mere houry* before the sttack crashed and exdted his truck; both Inucating that he was inspired* offcers suntved.d by the Istamrc State. The Sugar Bowt, part of the new As law enforcemert officers Continued on Page A22.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202518.png]
Ilustration: ZAHID CATCHING UP ON URBAN ROUTE Small Town Sales Join the Big League Contribution of Tier II-IV markets in consumption of discretionary products rising sharply  lation, and smaller or Tier IlIv  towns grew to 35% of total sales For instance, at market leader Writankar Mukherjee & markets had equal contribution as compared with 30%: in 2019, I  Maruti Suzuki, sales in rural Sharmistha Mukherjee to smartphone saIes in calendar washing machines to 51% from  markets climbed by ten percenta- 2019, the share of smaller towns 47%, and televisions to 48% from ge points to 48% during the pe- KolkatalNew Delhi: The rest of rose to53% in 2024 till October, ac. 46%, the data showed. riod under review. Similarly, Tata India is rapidly bridging the in- cording to NiclseniQ, which For cars, smaller towns saw a Motors said the share of rural equality gap with the country's tracks actual sales. faster increase in total sales cont-  markets improved by up to 7 per- larger citics in discretionary pro- For laptops, the share of smaller ribution. centagepointsto47%. duct consumption, marked by a Sharang Pant, commercial lea- steadily rising share in the sales Value.growth rate In 2024:(d!l October)) der-tech and durables at Nielse- of smartphones, washing machi- OTotal  Tier 1  Tier II, I, IV (in %) nIQ India, said the growing share nes and televisions in the past five of smaller towns to overall sales years, according to the latest data is fuelled by growing availability from companies and market rese. of consumer goods, as wel as gro- archer NielsenIQ. wing urbanisation driving emer- The diminishing differential is gence of new households. stimulated by a shift in social  Mass Appeal "Consumers also say they aredi- structure in the smaller markets verting savings from their utility Entry, mass segment goods experiencing fast urbanisation, bills due to the growing footprint have a higher share of sales formation of nuclear families and Smartphone Washing Lzptop of solar panel installations to- in smaller towns than metros deeper penctration of consumer machine wards purchase of consumer du. finance. rables," he said.  Smartphone entry segment contributes around t5%o of total unit sates ir

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202543.png]
RECORD PRIMARYMKT INVESTMENTSIN 24 FpIs Bow to IpO Allure, But Walk Out of Secondary Mkts dian cquities in the secondary 've invested in IPOs and qualified  nesses as they are often launched $14.5b foreign inflows market amid rich valuations, institutional placements (QIPs). at attractive valuations compa-. sluggish demand and slowing according to NSDL data. This mo- red with listed peers. into primary mkt last GDP growth. re than offset their exit from the  In addition, a bulk investment in Given the sustained flowof com- secondary market to the tune of. IPOs does not have any price im- yr outstrip secondary. panies filing draft red herring R1.21 lakh crore ($14.37 billion), re-.  pact, unlike a purchase in the se- prospectus (DRHPs) wIth the sulting in a net inflow of <426.9. condary market. exits; trend to continue  marketsregulator as a part of the crore ($124 million) for the calen- The domestic primary market IPO launch process, the domestic  dar year. reportedastrongflowof newoffe- primary market is likely to re- This compares with the net to- rings in 2024. A record 90 compa- Ranjit Shinde maina major routeof equity tal investment of <1.71 lakh cro- nies raised over 21.6 lakh crore investment for foreign re($20.74 billion) by FPIs in the  through the IPO route during the ET Intelligence Group: A boo. investors in 2025 as well. previous year, the highest an- year That broke the earlier re- ming market for initial public of- In 2021, FPIs pumped nual investment in domestic cord of 63 companies raising ne- ferings (IPO)continued to lure fo- 31.22 lakh crore (S14.5 bil- equities till date.. arly <1.2 lakh crore in 2021. reign portfolio investors(FPIs)in  lion) into the primary 1POsprovideanefficientrou- 2024 as they were net sellers of In- market, the most they. te for investment in new busi- Trend of Past Decade >>12 Net monthly  Primary + Secondary-  Secondary Monthly net  Domestic  FPI FP1 flows in  10,000- institutional 10,000 equities in 5,000 equity flow 5,000 2024 in 2024 (S million) ( crore) -5,000 -10,000-  -5,000 Decerabcr 20, FP1 dx)  t  1 -10,000 -15,000.  January 2024 Oecember Source: SeBl nSDL  January 2024 December Ilustration: ZAHID

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202601.png]
India Puts Many Surprise Eggs in Exports Basket Shipments of banana, ghee, furniture, office stationery and solar photovoltaic modules growing rapidly in new markets Watermelons, ghee, guavas, Russia, Germany, France, South significant potential for such Companies(CIABC)."The volu- Kirtika Suneja green chilli, capsicum, okra, Korea, China, Indonesia, Japan, exports. Alsomakingits presence mes are small but there is growth." garlic, onionsand alcoholic be-  Italy, Belgium and the UK have felt is a niche beverage.. Exportsof alcoholic beverages New Delhi: The humble banana verages are the other products on "The acceptance for Indian single rose 8% on-year in the April- along with ghec, furniture, office this list as India aims to increase malt whisky is growing in the EU, October period, of whichout-. stationery and solar photovoltaic its share in global exports to4-5% USand the far East," said Anant bound shipmentsof whisky rose (PV)modules are spicingup In- in the next few years from 2.5 Iyer, director general, Confedera- 16%. "A growth inexports is also dia's exports basket as, despite a now. The US, Malaysia, Canada,  tion of Indian Alcoholic Beverage. seen in certain spices such as small base, their shipments are black pepper," said the official 7 sm growingfast. Small-ticket Items  cited above. Small Wonders | Registers, While engineering goods, phar- lift India's exports  office Office stationery items such as maceuticals, gems and jewellery, Product/Export ($ m) registers and diarics are finding Share of bananas in  stationery and electronics are the key drivers Apr-Oct FY25Apr-Oct FY24 favour in Nicaragua, El Salvador global exports at find key markets of goods exports, these new sec- and Cyprus. 1.74% in 2023 vs  in Nicaragua, El tors are giving the country'sover-.  Similarly, India is now the sixth 0.21? in 2013  Salvador seas sales that extra push. largest exporter of solar PV modu- "Banana isamong the 20 agri Govt keen to raise  Banana LFTAs, quality  les with the country's share in. Ghee Furniture Rice products wc have identified whose  share of farm global exports of the product  products. exports we want to boost as, at 177.1 61.7 718.6 6,171 exports like okra, havingrisen to 2.51% in 2023 from marketingN  present, India's share is low in  guava to+-5e 0.4% in 2013. 127.455.8 [674.8)5,862]  strategy boost their global exports," said an from 2.5% now shipments  official. Tere & ndusry Minustry. New Products on the List >> 12

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202625.png]
TELCO LIKELY TO PRICE ENTRY PACKS LOWER THAN RIVALS Voda Idea Likely to Sound War Bugle with 5G March ring a price war, leading telco Sending a Plans to initially start broadband tariff trackers said. "Weare gcaringupto launch5G Message service in 75 cities services and are committed to providing the best experience across 17 key circles, and price," a Vi spokesperson told ET. The company would be target industrial hubs able to further enhance its 4G co. verage and introduce 5G in key cities at the carliest as it holds Vi looks to Kalyan Parbat sufficient and competitive 5G win back high- spectrum in its 17 priority mar-  value 5G users from Jio, Airtel Kolkata: Vodafone Idea (Vi) is kets, the spokesperson said. expected to launch 5G mobile "Over the next few months, Vi Co may also Analysts say broadband service in March may also play with distribution play with 5G battle will with aggressively priced plans, costs," a top sector analyst said. distribution  be fought on aiming to win back customers costs by pricing. but from Reliance Jio and Bharti Need to Stem Customer Losses >> 12  paying more service guality Airtel. which already boast na- commission  will also matter Tariff Hikes, Data tionwide 5Gnetworks. to dealers Vi is likely to initially launch 5G  Telco unlikely Play Lift Telcos' AGR  Likely to in India's top 75-odd cities across to go overboard its 17 priority circles and even tar-. The telecom industry  also hike as move could get industrial hubs that are heavy  promotional stifle ARPU saw 6.75% sequential data-guzzlingzones, multiple peo- spends growth ple aware of the matter said. growthinAGR at<75,310  Plans may be up to 15% cheaper Jio&Airtel had 148.m crore in the Sept quarter as tariff at entry levels-at a sharpdisco- & 105 m pure 5G users, hikes and robust data usage out- unt to current offerings by Jio respectivelyasofSeptend and Airtel-and are seen trigge- weighedtepiduser additions. >> 4

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202825.png]
FIRST CABINET MEETING IN NEWYEAR Two crop insurance schemes to run till FY26. o Total allocations for Additional subsidy of R3,850 cr PMFBY & RWBCIS market xtuatio for FY22-26 raised for DAP to maintain retail prices. to 69,515 crore SAnDP DAS SAnDIPDAs -ertilix New Dclhi, January 1 Now Dehi, Janvary 1 Modi says decisions dedicated to The union cabnet on Wednes* The government on w'ednes. enhancingprosperity of farmers day extended two crop Insurance dayext ended adiltional subsldy on schemes - the Pradhan Mantri 4 di-ammonium phasphate (DAP) fasal BImaYoJana (PM1FBY) and the beyond December 31,2021,almed PRIME MINISTER NARENDRA farmer sk ters and trothers who Restruct ured Weather Based Crop at hclping maintzin retail prikes of Modi said onW'ednesdaythat the workhard to feed ournation.The Insurance Scheme (Rwecis) -- by this key fertserat<1,350/abagof government's first decksion In the fst Cablnet of 2025 Isdedk ated one moreyear tal 2025-26 toalign 50 kg.This wt puhupthe fertilise? New Yearls dedicated to farniers, to enhancing prosperty for our their implementation with the subsidy by <3,850 cmrc in the cur. as the Union Cabinet hcaded by farmers. Iam glad that key dec- 15th Hnance Commksion periol. rent financ tal year. him enhanced allocation slons have been taken In this The total outlay for PMBY and "Farmers will continue to get to crop  Insurance regard, the Prime Minister RWEcis lus been Increased to DAPat1,350 per 50-kgbag andthe sheme anl raised wi!ln s peat on soc tal mediu 69,515 crore for 2021-22to2025. extra burden will bc bome by thc subsdy on a key fer.  patfarm'x: 26,from 66,550 core forFY21.25. central govemment One- dme s pe- tlser. *The Cablnet deck!on on The cabinct commiktee on cco. $! po oss' m dn sS ped ges "Ours is a govem. I extendingthe ax-timespe- nomke affalrsalso created asepante approved for DAP fert ser, Infor. ment fully commned cla package on dFanmo- fund forinnovation and technology mation and broadcasting minister to furthering welfare ? njum phosphate will helpour (FLAT)of <824.77 crore for technd. AshwInl Vals hnaw sald in a press of farmers. farmers by ensuring DAP ogy infusion In the inplementatian Information and broadeasting minister Ashwiri Vaishnaw addresses the briefing. He pointed out that the We are at affadable pxices" Of these fagship schemes.  press after a meeting ofthe Cabinet in New Delhi on Wednesday. global market prices of DAP are proud of  the Prime Alinister "F1AT wi helpin the use of tedh- Wdat 'le due to geopali tic alconcans. alt aurf added Ud- nology for faster assessment of acp tlement bcyond the stipulated than 55e of famers who are The govemment has stated that damage, clalm settenent an! perial underthe PMF BY. erolled under the cropInstr ance re DAP inpoxts were kpacted due lo Iesser dis putes. It wll also hetp in Insuance chims of <L7 lakh those whohad nt avail ed loans from the Red Sea crisis since the begin- trade sources said that with the demand of 10-11 MT* in kast three usng digital technologlesforeasler crore have been pald to fames thebanks n FY24, *the offlktal sald. nin gofthe yeur, asships are rerouted rise In globa! prices of DAP, such a months, we have tried the longer Snrolment and greatcr coverage. again st < 34,000 aore premium paid and take an additional 6,$00 km hike has become uneconomical. routes to cnsure adequate supplyof Informationandbroadcastingmin. Govt allows non-basmati through the Cape of Good Hope, Global prices of the soil nutrlent, DAP although avallability' is ister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the 2016,accornding to agriculturs min. rice exports to Indonesia South Africa, thustaking an addi. which s rital for the winter crops impacted," Rajat Kumar Mishra. press after the cablnet meeting. Istry data. Partidipaton tn PMFBY s donai 14- 5 days fora mnslgament durtng early sowing stages, have secretary, the department of fer. The agriculture minstry uu Optlanal for farmerx, PAiFBY k cur- The Cabinet approved the export. to reach Kandla part In Gujarat. surgedIn recent montht. tillser, had stated at national rabi the special fund will bc utilised rently implemonted in 23 states and cf 1 millon tonnc of non- basmati Earlicr, in a bid to improve The fertibiscr ministry has. confcrence while stressing micro. toward rwndilng tec hnoogical ind. Un'on tedtorie,In FY24,enol nent rice to Indonesia through Natona! avallability, the fertiliser mlnistry esed 5.5 ntlicn tonne (1T) of management of supples of non. tiatives as well as rescarch and under PM FBYaossedarecord 4 mil- Cooperative Export ltd (NCEl) The  has offcred an additional subsidy DAPusage forthe fart hoomingrabi urea fert iscr. develbpment studiex. 1on,and it s projected to Increuse dg. expat wil be conducted under a of < 3,s00/tonne for DAP, or a spe- season out of which 60%t!s be1ng Industry sources tod FE that due Agriculture minister Shivraj niicantly in thc current fiscal. memorandum of undcrstanding cial packagc costing ?2.625 crorc.  importe d from countries such as to srpply disupt ion in the Red Sca. Singh Chouhan sald the Insurance An of tidal sad the arop insurance bet ween NC El, India's cocperadon to cover rising cost during Aprll- Russ la, Morocco, SaudlArabla, Jor- landedmost of DAP Inthe muntry has companics will have to pay a schame isgtaduaymoving towardts ministry andthe Indonesian goy. December 2024-25 to make the dan, Fgypt and China, The annua! increasd ty 26% from$510,tonne penahy of 124 to farmers on the a subscription- based model rather emmont, agr icult ure mnister Shiv. price sustalnable for compandes for domestic production of DAP Is in Alay to $615/tonne or around clains ifthere is adelyin caimset- than a loan-basd schene. "More araj Singh Chouhan told reporters. procurement of Da?, Howevet, around 4.5-4.8 MT against a <54,000'tcne at present.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202847.png]
Govt cuts jet fuel price by 1.5%, commercial LPG by 14.5/cylinder PRESS TRUST OF INDIA New Delh, January 1 MONTHLY REVISION Nagaraju to THE PRICE OF kt fucI,or ATf, on PSBs: Speed Wednesday was reduced by L5% and thc ote of commertiaI lFG that s usrd in hotck and restaurantswas up resolution cut by<14.5pe 19-kg cytnlerinthe monthly rcvision done in linc with of grievances bexhniak ktematonaI prces. ATF prices for domestic air ines The aviation turbinc fuel (ATF) /kilokitre prtce was relucedby <1,401.37 per Applic able from January 1, 2025 FE BUreAU kilotttr, cr 1.52%, to90,455.47in New Dethi, January 1 the natlonal capital -- bone toone. MetRoprices ofthe busiest aiwports -- accarding to state-owned fud retallers. $TRESSING THAT ANY bxity In 90,455.47 grievance redre sal is against the The rte cut follows two rounds Kolkata 93,059.79. ethos of customer service and of monthly increases. Prices were dImlnls bes the band value of the Increased by <2,94 L5 perkJ (3.3%) Mumbai 84,51193 organisation, financial services sec- on Noxmbcr 1,andby t1.J15.12 retary Mi Nagaraju has directed pub- per kl (L45) on December 1. Chennai 93,670.72 lic sector banks (PSBs) and insur. 20 24.The ATF price in Mum bai has A 19-tg commercial cyinder ance companles (F$ICs) to address been reduced to <84,$11.93 from publc grievances sincerely in a t85,861.02 per k1previausly, now costs <1,804 in Delhi. <1.756 in Mumbi, <1,911 in time- bound manng. Oil iams al so reduced the price On Wednesday, Nagaraju of commerciat 1PG by <14.5 to Kolkata, and t1,9o6 in Chennai revicwed 20 randomly sdected pub- <1.804 per 19-kg cytinder In the  Dorestic cooking gas rate lic grievances resdved by PSBs and! nat ionalc apital.This the first reduc. remains unchangtd PSiCs to assess resohut lon quality. tion after fifth stralght monthly During the redew meeting, hikes In commerclal LPG price. Nagarajuotsered that the majarity Rateswere hiked by 316.5 per 19. gas used in domestic houschold of customers raksed complants due kg cylinder at thelast revislon on however, remained unchanged 2 to genuinc gricvances against an December l.ln five price inacases, < 803 pcr 14.2-kg cylinder. organlsaton, and suressed that cus- commerclal LPG rates had been St te-owned indian Oll Corpo tomer satisfact ionwas at the hcartof hikedby<172.5 per19 kgcylinder. ration (IOc),. Bharat Petroleun the grievance redresal mechanism. Commercb! LPC now costs Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hin He ako stressed u pon devising 1,756 per 19-kgcylinder in Mum- du stan Petrolrum Corpaxation l.t suitable technical solutions to min- bai 1,911 In KoIkata,and <1,966 (HPCL) revise prices of ATF anx Inise therepetitive complaintsofa In ChennaL Prices of ATF and LPG cooking gas on the first of even. stm ar nature whlch would save differfromstate tostate depending  month based on the average prlo dme of resolut bn andInaease the on the lnddence of loca! taxes. of benchmark Internatlonal fue efficicncy of resolution process.  including VAT. The rate of woking and fareignexdange rate.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202929.png]
DISPATCHES SOAR14% YoY TO 320,000 UNITS SUV demand puts Dec PV sales in the fast lane oSales hit 4.3 million IN TOP GEAR in 2024, marking Domestic auto sales jin unts)  Dc 2023 Dec 2024% change 4.8% growth Mar uU Bajaj AutO Jynzns RAGhAVAGGARWAL New Dethi, January 1 2,23,335 Driven By RObust demand for [1,30,117 sports utility vehicles (Suv) pas- senger vehicle (rV) sales - dis- patches from manufacturers to dealcrs - in December stood at 320,000 units, up 14% year-on. year, markinga strongcndto 2024. 4230 42,208 Ofthe five ke ading au lomake rs 427 - Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor 35,174 lndla, Tata Mlotors, Mahindra & 24.1 21,373 Mahind ra,and Toyota Kirloskar -- whlch reported th elr sales number on Wednesday, only Hyundai reported a decline of 1.3, whlle 17.7) (313 Tata Motors reported a low single *2 [16.4] digit growth of 2%. M&M Jc punAH Tata Toyota For the 2024 calendar year, PV Motors Kir loskar sales reached appraximatcly 4.3 nillion units, up4.8% from 4.1 mil- Eon in 2023.Th e SUV scgment has dispatches,on the back of robust dra, managing director of Tata been Instrumental In this growth, demand for models like the Thar Motors Passenger Vehldes. wit hitsshae of tot alPVsakesclimb. -oddmspue Ing to over 55% at the end of Though Hyunda! Motor sawa Slower demand for 2Ws December compared to kss than marginal 1.3% decbine in Decem. In wontrast to the PV sgment. 50% at theend of March thlsyear. ber dispatches, Its flagshlp SUV the two-wheeler narket experl. Marut! Suzukl, the country's Creta achleved record-breaking enced subdued demand. Bal Jargest passcnger vehicle manu. ycarly domestic sales of 186,919 Auto reported a 19% drop in its acturer, witnessed a 21% surge in unlts, contributing 67.6% to donestk sales in Dece mber, with utity vchicle sales,driven by pop. Hyundai's totat PY sales for 2024. dispatches falling to 128,000 ula rmodels ike theImdcto, Grand "Creta contlnues to relnforce our unlts from 15s,000 unlts In Vitara, and Ertiga. Partho Bancr. position as an Suv Icadcr,* said Deccmber 2023. Jee, senlor executive officer, nar- Tarun Garg, whole-time director Looking ahead, automakers keting and sales,noted, *The share and COO,Hyundai Motor India. remain optimistic about the PV of SUvs In ourtota! dispa tches has Tata Motors recorded a modest market's trajectory in 2025.*we grown steadaly,from 2 3% in Aprit 2% growth in December dis. expect the IVindustry tocontinue to 27.99e in December. Thls has patches and a 1.8% increase for. Its upward momentuni' sald been our best month and year In the calendar year. Its suy portfo- Chandra of Tata Motort. retail saics*On zn ovcrall basis. Jio, backed, by ncw product While challcnges such as high Marud's domestic sales during the launches llke the Curvy and dIstributor Inventory slowed month was up 24.1% from the Nc won.ev 45, was a kcy driver.*Our growthin carly 2024,automakers same month last yeat. multl-powertraln stratesy and  ended the year on a poshtive note, Mahindra & Mahindra also innovative offerings have been  driven by the growing preference reported an 18% increase in SUV for SUVs.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 202944.png]
Air India set for major global expansion, says CEO Wilson press trust Of india New Delhi, Januay 1 Camme wlson, ceo t mo, ar aoa All 30,000 Air Indians are fully com- AR iNDIA HAS covered a lot of ground since privatisation and its  mitted to improving the quality and global coverage will further consistency of our services, in all incrcase inthe ycars ahcad,the air. Ilne's chief Campbell wilson sald  areas, so that Air India becomes the on Wednesday. world-class airline we all want it to be He abo ssli the Interbr refit of the singlc-aisle fkct, serving domestk and short-haul Interna- tional destinations, is underway, AI first airline to roll out and wIl be completed by mld. 2025. Loss-making Alr Indla was Wi-Fi on domestic fleet? acqulred by the Tata Group froni the govemment in January 2022. an! Is undergoing an anibitious : AIR INDIA fre-year transformation phan. 1n 2024, Air India conpleted the merger of Vistaa with itself as well at integratlon of Alr India Express and Ai X Conncct was atso done. private CArrier aIr 1ndla on when above 10,o00 feet It sald. In his New Ycarmssage.Wilson Wednesdayrol ed outWi Fiinter. The deployment of wi-F an saldthese mergers and new alrcnft net connectvity servlces on donestic routes follows an deliveries have taken Air India to.xd domestic and internatiom! ongoing pilot programme on Group's flectto 300 airgaft, aow. fights on its widebody Alrbus intemational servkes operated ing it lo expand to over 1 00 domes- A3 50 and Boring 787-9 Neet by theAirbus A350,sekect Air- tic and tnternational destinations. as wel as on sclect Airbus bus A321 nco and Boc. *Air India's global covera ge will A32 Ineoalrcaft Ing B787-9 alrcraft futher incrcase in the years ahed. This ma kes Ar India serving international not least because of the recent addl- the fk st alri kne to affer such destinatlons Including tion df 1o0airaaft to cur ader book, srvices on Aights within New York, London, Paris and augmenting the earller commlt. India, the atril ne sald. Singapore.As with the domes- ment for 470 nade in 2023"he said Axesible onWi-Fi-enabed tic offer, Wi-Fi is complimen. The Atr India CEO and MD a5o devices sich as laptops,tablets, tary foran Introductory pertod, ald these newalreaft wl be sup. and smartphones w Ith IOS or Alr lndiaad. ported by a brand-ncw 12-bay Androidopaatingsystems,the Air India said it will pro. ma kntenance facility and ma nte. In-filght w-F wilt slxo alow gres sively roll out the servkce nancctaining school in Bcngaluru guests to conncct multiplc  on other aircraft in its flcet (Kamataka), a new 34-alrcraft devices slmultaneously Over time. pn flight school in Amravati (Maha- rashtra) and the tranng academy in Gungram (tlaryana) direct flights to internationaIdes. *All 30,000 Ar Indians are fully 1ndia is one of the world's tinatonsd mmmltted to hnproving the qua]. fastest growing civil avia tion mar *Air Indin has covered a lot of ity and consistencyof our services, kets and efforts are belng made to ground In the perlod since privati- In all areas, so that Alr lndla make the countrya sicbal adation satlon; we acknowledge there's becomes thewordd-class arlnewe hubwith Indian carricrs providing much more to bc done. a want itto be, he said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203011.png]
-comm delivers record sales on New Year's Eve RAGHAY AGGARWAL mitment to rapd delivery by market has grown larger, and the New Dethi, Janvary 1 cxpanding into medicincsvia Tata  number of players has increased. 1mg and expiorIng food dd hveryIn We're focusing on nnovatlon and Quick commerce firms saw 2025 Mcanwhikc, Bsnkit cxpanded expandingtomorecitics*thcexec- thelr sales soar to unprecedentedd Its product offerings to Include utive sald. Ievels on December 31.Howevet. he aters, geysers, and air purifiers. Despite robust growth,industy Industry leaders anticlpate a supported by a newly Introduced Ia ders are cautiousabout what lies tough road aheadin 2025 as com. targe onder fleet. ahead. Palicha's commemts about petition intensifies and market The q-commerce Iandsape is operatonal excelknce underscore dynamicseralve. becoming inc reasingly crowded.1n the thinmarginfar enorin a sector Aadit Palicha,co-founder and 2024,e-commerce giants Amazon wh ere execution is crit ic al. CEO of Zepta, underscored the sec. and Hipkart joined the fay, whike Morgan Stanley's recemt report tor's remarkable growth and the domestic players such as Myntra. adds wcight to this perprctive,pro. challenges that lle ahead In two. Nylaa, and Rellance Retall plIcted Jecting that q-commerce will sur. separa te Linkcd In posts.*This New faster delivery services. Hinkit pass food delivery in gross order Year's Eve marked s 2009b Increase retalns its posidon as the market value (GOV) by 202 s. However, It in sales compared to last ycar. Icadkrw ith over 40% share,fodowed wamedof dhaengesasthc market However, It will become Increas. by Zepto and Swiggylnstamart. matures. *The real challenge of Ingly clear in 2025 that q-com. Satish Meens, an analyst at growth and poten tial market share merce requires exceptionalexecu. Datum InteI igence,highli ghted the Ioss wil arise as the orerall market tion tothrive, Palichasaid. capital narkets environment for inchded grapes, chips, and soda -- Industry's diversification *We can matures" the repart stated. Zepto recorded an extraordi- thus industrywlllook signifiantly reflecing festive trends. Swiggy expect more playes experiment ing Companles are responding by nary pace df sales, noving 3,34 5 kt different compared to 2024 and Instamart ako set a new record. with q-conumerce In categories like diversifying theiroffe ringsand foxus- rt9z : = anoy 1d shped sqn3 2023 Palicha said. doubin gits prcvious New Year's Eve fashion, ckctronics, beauty, and ing on customa retention Zepto's Jumpfrom Iast year. Meanwhile, commendng on salesand selin g overs 00,o00 pac k- medkines,*Aeena cbserved Sasenoe anpn yul natgadns. "The customer value propesi. sakes on Dember 31, Blinkit CEO cts of dhi ps. Salcs of cola soft drinks A scnior Blinkit official, speak. bulk arders, wtte Binkit and Big. tlon wt level up qulckdy. Unk eco- Abinder Dhlndu sald that thed surged by 39.44, whlle clear soft Ing on the condit bnof anonymity. Bas ket are ntegrating new cate- namics and cffartsto buid operat. drinks skyrocketed by 94 1% stressed the nced forinnovation to gorics toinacase basket sizesand tap Ing leverage will evolve, and the orders in a day". Popular Items BigBasket, confirmedits com. malntain market dom nance.* The Intovaried consumcr needs.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203126.png]
SENSEX RISES 368 POINTS, NIFTY UP 98 POINTSASAUTO STOCKS RALLY Indices begin 2025 on a high o FPIs continue POSITIVE START sectors such as capital goods. Industrials, auto, and power, Nar  selling spree added. Sensex! Nifty Realty and nietal were the only KIshOr KADAm Iosing sectors anong the aSE Mumbai, Janvary1 78,265.07 indices. Whilc rcalty declined by Open 1.13%, metals dipped marginally AFTER CLOSNG IN thc rcd cn thc by 0.11% Tata Stec! was thc top 78,507.41 Lst day of 2024, benchmark 23,742.9 Sensex loser, fallng Q.98%. Close: Jan 1 *25 indics started thc ncw yearon a Close The overall market brcadt h was podtlve note. On Wedne sday, the xI7'0 Jan 1 '2S posltive, with 2,743 galners com. Sensex hit a high of 78,756.49,up 0.47 pa red to 1,240 lasers. 617.48 polnts or0.79%. 23,644.8 Close: Dec 31*24 The broader Indices outper. Howevet it pared some gains to 78,139.01 formed the benchmarks, with thx end the day at 78,507.41, up Clou: Dec 31 *24 Open: 23,637.65 BSE Alldcap rising by 0.5 0% and 365.40 points or Q.4 7%.Thc Nifty the BSE Smallcap increasing by soared by98.10 potnts or0.41 to Sensex, Nifty retums on first day of calendars (% chgt Senxex Nity 1.03%. close at 23,742.90. The Indices Investors' wealth surged by 1.60 re mained in the positive territory 2 0.54 0.44 0.51 0.47 t 2.44 Iakh crore to <444.43 Iakh Ior most part of the trading ses- s0 -0.08 crae d uring the se wion. 2 t'o- sion. 17 00 Most anatysts offered a bulEsh However, foreign portfolio outlook for the equity nurkets In invest ors (F PIs) continued to bc on 2025. *Eulls wilt dominate in a selllng spree.According toprov. CY25,wIth the Nifty expected to sional data from exchanges,FPIs Jan1 ! Jan? Jan 1 Jan 1 Jan 1 Jan1! Jan3 Jan 2] Jan 1 Jan 1 deliver a 19% return and reach a sold equltles worth <1,782.71 2016 :2017 2018 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 potentlal target of 28,700 over core while domestic institutional the ncat 12 months Bajaj Investor(Dils) net bought shares Broking sald In a recent market worth <1,69Q.37 core. Maruti Suzuki, with a 3.26%jump, are positire on a quarter-on-quar. out Icok report. Wednesday's surge was mostly emerged as the top Nifty gainer. ter' basis," sald Vinod Nalr, "We fore cast a Nifty base target powered by auto, capital goods, *The market started on a pod- head of research at Geojit of 26,300 for December 2025, and tndustrials shares Strong sales tive note on the fust day of 2025. Finandal Services. suggesting a moderate rctum of mumbers for December generated The recovery was broad-based, An uptick in core sector data 10% year-on-year, supported by investor lnterest in auto stocks. while the sustalnability of the and the prospcct ofinaeascd gov. an expected camings revamp Among the top flve Nlfty galners. trend wll depend on the earnings ernment capitalexpenditure In the Q3 FY2 5 cnwards Geo[it FnandaI three were from the auto sector. growth in Q3.where expectations remainder of the fiscal boosted Services said in areport.e

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203217.png]
UPI transactions hit record high in Dec; value at 23.25Lcr ANNUAL FIGURES Volume (bilion) [Growth' Vsb+(z bkh cr) [Growth Jan'  1122 Sla? Jan' J1sA: Feb 12.1 60.6 Feb 183: =60.6 Mar 13.4.1 $5.31 Mar 1 19.8 : 55.3: Apr 13.3 * 5017 'Apr 196 = sa.l! 49.11 UPD Moy 14.0: May I 20.4 49.1! Na 113.9 :  487: Jn 20.1' Jt: 114.444.0. nt: 20.6  44.9. Avg 15.0 41.3 Aug 20.6 E41.3: Sep 150 425 Sep 20.6 425: Oct 16.6 454 Oct [23.5] 4454; Nov 15.537.8 Nov 21.6 375 Det  16739.2 Dec 23.3 = 39.2: So{e NPCJ Sachin kumar lakh crore last year,compa red with Mumbai, January1 18 3 lakh aoreln 2023,as per the data from NPCi. Digital transactions Con- On an annuaI basis, UPI trans. TINUED their upward trend! in Actions saw a 39% growth In ral. December, with the number of ume anda 28% Increase Invalue. transactions on the Unified Pay. The data further showed that ments Intcrface (UP1) rising 8% Immcdiate Payment Service month-on-month to hlt a record (LMPs) transactlons were up by of 16.73 billion, according to data 8% in December to 441 million from the Natlonal Payments Cor- agalnst 408 millon In November pora tion oflndia (NPCI). and 467 milionin Otcber. The UPI transaction volume in In value terms, this was <6.02 Novenber stood at 15.48 bileon. takh crore,up8% from<5.58takh The value of UPI transactions core h November,and <6.2 9 Iakh also surged 8% to <23.25 lakh aore in Octcber. crore,up from <21.55 lakh crore In November. by 6% in volume to 382 nillion For the cntire year, UPI in December, against 359 million processed around 172 bllllon In November, and 345 milllon!n transactions, marking a 46% October, The vaJue atso increased Incease from 118 bllonln 2023. by 9% to 6,642 crore agalnst In valuc terms, UPl transac- t6,070 crore in November and tions gre w by 354to nearty <247 ?6.115 crore In October. INDCRADAD

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203305.png]
US stocks fall to close out best two-year stretch since 1998 NATALIA KNIAZHEVICH short-term technlaIsu pport level Janvary 1 Ony 18'% of st ods are trading above AFTER RECORD RUN thek 50-day moving aveage. US STOCKS D ECuNED in th< fina Decenberhas turnedintoachal.  Bitcon monthty change (%) 40 session of the yea but stll closed out Ienging month for most US stock 30] the best tro-yrarrunsince 1998.The Indexrs. The snlI-cap Rusx1l 2000 20 4 S&P500ndexfe0.4%n1tsfourth I down more than& on the month. 1D 1 downdry,the longest kosng st reak to the worst nonthly performance of end a ycar since 1 966.The Nasdaq since September 202 2. -November 10 100 dectined 0.9% and the Dxw and carly December were very con- Jones Industrial Average felt 0.1% centratedat the top of t hc market so 20. 1: The Russel 2000 Index ro se 0.1% It didn't take muchonce those numes S& P 500 Index has surged 2 3% took at txcather for market to locse 2024 Sawke Risamt+y thIs year, stoked mostly by the hype momentum, wrote Wyalter Todd, aro und artif ic ial inte  igence break- president and chicfinvestnentoffi- throughs. But gains slowed in the cerat Grearwood Capital Valuaions Bitcoin slips in Dec from peak final quarter df theyear,as the pace ol are ekvated, there are a lat of the rally nked concems and unknowns regarding new adminis. Investas grew pttery atout factors tration and the move higher in ates SiDharTHA ShuKLA its alter a rallytriggered by Pre si- sxch as Presldent-ckect Donald have been probkmatik for stocks." Janwary 1 dent-elect Donald Trump's victory Trump's protectionist pdides and Antong prominent novers, US  pushed Bitcoin to an all-time high thc possibilit y of fewe interest rate Steel shares jumped afterthe Hash+ Bitcoin's Record-Breaking of$108,315 mid December.Fever. Cuts from the federal Reserve. Irgton Aoss reported that Nppon RUN faltered toward the end of Ish speculatlon In the crypto mar. The indexfc 2 5% in Decanber. Stel offered the Bidan administra. 2024,Icading to its first monthJy ket has cooled as cxpectations for murking ks weakest return dnce don aveto ov'er output crtt as part of drop slnce August.. Interest-rate cuts fron the Federa! Aprit It's currentty trading bdow its a last dit ch bid for US approval of its Thc digit al asset fell 3.2% last Reserve wancd,croding appetite for  50-daymoving average seen as akey poposed muger. Bloomeerg month as US Investors cashed prof- rskier assets. -BLOOmBERG HHDERARAD

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203426.png]
O EVOLVING MARKETS The future of algo trading Ast month, the Scc uritics mal functioning al gos. Thcy would also and Exc hange Board of 1ndla hn'e to supervise/lnspec t thut stoc kbo- (Scbi) proposcd significant kers have the ability to distinguish changes to Its framework betweenalyo and non-ayoordes,as we goveming algo trading. To as issuc detaikd opcrational modastic recap qukkly, agaithmic uading, or SANDEEP PAREKH on the rolesandresponsibl it les ofstock. Igo trading rfers toany tradin gactnity brokers and AP's, inc huding risk manage. that automates trades, and does not Ma nsg ng partner, Fnsec Law Adv sors ment systems for API orders. require nanual intervention to place any The prexnt pwoposal thus seemsto be xders, or monk or prices. more carefull y thought out, and seeks to There are twoways in which onc an orders aboe such theshold would bc abng with a now rpart. adopt an approach t hat strikes a balance Qrry out algo tradtng.The stralghtfor- treated as algo ordes. The proposed framework places slg- between the tnt crests of st akebdldes and ward niethod Is to wse the aigorithnt Second, Sebl has proposed to bring nific ant responsibill ties on steck broker. Sebr's concerns in anotherposltive move, povided by the stock toker, The other "algo providers* (Ars)within the regul. They would have to put systems in place in its last board mecting of 202 4,Scbis ruteIs throughappication prograime tory ambit. These woukl bx agents cf to detect,kdentify, and categer ke all onters board granted approval for the recogni. tnterace (APr), which cnabkc clectronic stockbrokers, stmilar to the present above the specifed OPS tueshold as algo tion ofa*Past Ri sk and Retum Verification systens to connect with each other. -qns agym +usaq!  wxd pstoq1nr. orderx. They would alxo have to enaure Agmcy"(PaRRVA),which shai|carry out Think of it as a data pipe which carrices boka cona pt AFs would #so hawe to rrg. that they can distinguish betweenalgo the vxrification of risk-return mctia your algorlthm. APIs enable the trans. Isterwith the stockexchange and get thebh and non-algo orders. Further, brokers Inter alla for algo urailng. mission ofinfomation,and as aresult.a algos approved by the cxchange. This would no longer bc permitted to offer There are stll some points which third party an deate a mde thx wllexe- wouli ensure that thebroker Is respons! open APIs to ensure Identicatibn and my requlre rethndng as aigo trading cuteitseif on the txoker's platform. bk for custome gricvances, and the traxcabiliky of the vendor and end uset. picks up, such as Scbi's carticr question. 1n the context of algo trading thlrd redress mechankm Wh etber such restrict lons of whether an algo should be a fadity parties provide their algo on say, plat. deploye! by Sebi would be Are reyui red inviewof mea- provide d by a research analyst, invest. formx, which k connected to the bro. wailable to AP diants Indi- Atumaround time sures te the OPS thureshold ment adviser, or aseparate dass of regu- ker's platform through an API. Thus. viduals who design their must be specified  nayrequire more thought. Lated entities altogether.With the pro. aders placed by the chiant on plafarm ownalgos would also have to to register algos, APs have uscs beyond algo tiferation of artificial inteligcnce (AI). Xget pasedon to the Ixroker. Now,wtile aq) Aq paraxd r tsy? ad including a fast- tading The proposa! dir. mles, responsbiities, risks, and liabii. a broker can identify that an order is stock cxchanges through cular should not stand in ties are gettingredefined. track registration mmhngn through anAPl,It cannot ver- thetr boker. the way of such use c ses. However, there are fewItems that Hyt hat thcorderis analgo ordert. The regulator has also for some such as The stock exchanges may require consideration soon, if not In 2021, concemed with the rse of sought to categodse algos white box algos would al so have to do a fat now. For in stance, algos msy be designed urueguLated algos, Sebi proposed to treat into white box and black bxx bit of work Firs,thxy must by A1. Risks that nay arise dux to sud? a AM orders as algo orders. This was a algos. Whit e box algos, also define the roles and Instances mustal so be deliberated upon. awed departure Irom It misuon to known asexecutonalgos,are thosewhich responsiboltes of brokers and empan- song with therolesand responsibitt ies cncouage innovative and digital solu. cxex ute orders based on fully transparent clkd vendors, and lay down the crkeria of the clements invoked. while there tons h the sec urtles market, as the reg u- agorlthns, where the bogk, dec llon- and process of vendor empanelment A mayneverbeone right answer,and reg. Iator's proposal would have saddled con: making processes, and underlying rules tumaround time must bc sprcificd fcr wation df somcthing as innovative as nectivity between brokers and other are accssible and unlerstandabet owses reglstation of algos, Inchuding a fast- alyos orAl-based aigos !s bound to cre.  sophisticated players linked to thon for and replicablc Back box algos are thosc track rcgistration for somc such aswhitc atc somc unnccessary bucaudacy, it is non-algo purposes. It appears that the whse logkisnxt known totheuserand is box algos fu rther, the exchanges woud Im portant for the reguator to at least  proposal has been scrapped, and after not replicabke. For proiding Hack bax have to deploy additiona! re sourtes. They hare a grip on sonething that could extenstveconsulta tons withthe industry.  algos one woud be requked to reglster as would be requlred toconduct post-trade have system k impact on the markets. a more practical apyroach huas bem pro. a tesarch analyst, and far each algo a  monitoringofalgoorders and trxles,and posed WithrcspecttoAPIorde,Scihas research report would have to be ntain-  put in place a standard opuratng proce- Co authored wirh Par kerKarkn and uggeted thx an arderper second (OPS) talned. In case of any change In the algo dure for algo testng, Further, th ey m ust Pragya Garg respertuety seriorassor- threshdld bc specified,and that allAP] logic,itwould hav tobe rgisteredafesh. havetheabtitytousc akillswitchtostop #tr andasoiarc Finsc LaurAkisors

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203601.png]
INDUSTRY INSIDERS OPTIMISTIC THAT THE TIDE WILL TURN Regulation, deals, crypto: Fintech themes for 2025 Emily mason KEY TAKEAWAYS and thx acting head of the January1 Office of the Comptroller of the Cu rrency,Midhacl Hsu. THE CLOUDS THAT hung Fintech investment $ JY O over the financial technology 150 f  Do lars invested Deals, deals, deals t buund Industryln 2024 appear to be windf al df (bn) The bounce- back of pubidy ckearing as interest-rate cuts. irnestment traded fintech com panies foj. recoveries in fintech stocks post pandemic. Iowing steep declines from and promises of a kooser regu- the fintech 2021 peaks has stoked opt- Iatory envtronment Inthe sec- industry's 100 mksm that opportuntles fa ond Trump administration vast crop of public istings are onthe hari. paint a more promising out. startups acro ss zon ThcArk Fintech Innoration Iook for startups. payments, ETf rose about 34%1n 2024.  kanding and Buy now. pay later firm of Investnent durng the Kharna and neobank Chinie so period that foowed thc Corid banking faced Finandial have fled for initia! 19 pandenic, the fintech a chalenging public dlfering, setthng the indust ry'srast crop of start ups adjus tme nt $t 2 gc for othet fun tec hs to fol. ac ross payments, lending con- padd Iow sult. Strtpe and Piald are sumer bank ing and othercat. * two ot her clasely watched IFO egorles faced a challenging  bankruptcy 201920202021 20222023 conte nders. "You can see the adpu stnent period. fog lifting from the markt" of bankingas* Asventure-cpital funding Sovmr O rigMs 2023 St#e d said Matt Stesfeld. general  service startup dried up, some fintechs cut part ner at fintec h inves tnient their spending through layoffs Synaps* fim Oak HC/FT.*As you head Firnanc al an! more-focused product  CFPB in iks recent moves have Into the bac kend of 2025 and strategies Othen with signifi- Technologies  induded daiming oversight of digital carty 202 6.you can sce pubhc kft tho us and's cant warchats heh ontovalu- waliets peddled by large tech liums windowsopen" af fwtech While the public market sentiment Whue the public market beeninflated during the fren- is more promsing, only a few fintech sendment Is noxe promising. without ac cess zird fundine poiod. furms are sca'td enough to be able to Only a handful of private fin. to funds These factors all comtined confidenty weather the transition tech flrms are scaled enough to stll deal ativity, slow thattheywouldbe abietocon. growth and Insplre laments of fidently weather the transl. a *fintech wlnter  For 2025. ated a wave of enforcement dled by large tech ndogy com- tion. Mizanwhile, fintech ven- however, Industry Insiders are actions against so caled spon- panies and probing fintech ture funding has sowed to optinustic that the tide will sot banks w hich partner with Trms Includ ing PayPal Hok!- pre-pandemic levels. turn and momentum will fintedhs toenable them to off Ings.Affirm Holdings. Klama Group and Block'sAfterpay. Crypto payments build around new ter hnokgies financul praluct.The cunent tik stablecoins and t hat capi- administration has responded That all stands to change go mainstream tal ralsing aqulstions and with a slate cf enforcement under the incoming admnk. One month after Donald public listings will begin to trat ion Donald Trump's advis. Trump won the preaidentia! plck up. Here are three fintech and public gudance. ers have sought to shrink or elecdon, Bltmin passed the themes to watc hin 202 5: Yet even brfore the Syrapse climinate bank reguators. $100,000lexlfor the furst time disaster,F DlC Ch atrman Mar- Inckudlng the FDlC and the -oud atn Aq panonq Aayn aasa  Relaxed regulation tin Gruenberg stokedtheireo! CFPb, the Wa Street Journu! crypto attltude of the pres. The bankru pt cy cf ban king as- policy groups like the Ame ri- rcported.EJcn Musk,co Icadof dent clect Trump's fawourablc a-serce itartup Sympse can Fintech Counc, whlch the Inldatne dubbed Depart-. attik ude towand cryptoextends Financia! Technologics icft pndope Ausgesgy pep sonaee ment of Govemment Effr to him gctting in on thc action thousands of flntech cus- a"regulat bn by enforcement" clency,or DOGE,issueda ca to hinself by promodng hus own tomers wit hout accesstofunds approsc h, stfling innovation *Delcte CFPn* in an X post  projt t Word lbanty Financial. held in accounts that were, In In the banking ndustry. Presldent-elect Trump sup. The Inconing adminlstra* some cases, advertised as pro- Similarty, the Consumer ports DOGE and has the powe? tion's pro-crypto agenda is tec ted by the Federal De posit Financtal Potection Bureau he necds to fire CFPB directcr Iikelyto put wind tn thesaisof In surance. The drbade has put (CF tt) has long been acrusdof Rohit Chopwa, if not hing else. cf lorts to utiti z technolagies parmerships between banks regulatoryoverreach Its recant Oter finandal regulator Iike s tablecoins, espectally fcr moves hive Induded clalming erpected w be replaced those trying to erpand Inter- ulatory hot sat and aca kr. oxrsight ofdigitalwall ctsped- inchde thc FDIC's Gnenberg natonaby.* --Bloomaerg

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-02 203636.png]
Bhopal gas tragedy: 40 yrs later, toxic waste leaves Union Carbide factory Press tRust of indiA the Union Carbide pestiaide Bhopl, Jnxy 1. factory on the ntervening night of Decmber 2.3.1984, FORTY YEARS AFTER the killing at least 5,479 people Shopal gas tragedy, the shift. and tearing thausands with Ing of some 3 77 tonne of haz. serlous and long-Lsdng heath ardous waste began from the issues It is considered to be defunct Unlon Cartide factory among the worst tndustrtal on Wednesdaynieht far its dis. posal, an officlal said.. The Madhya Pradesh High The toxic waste b being Court on December 3 retuked shifted bn 12 sled contang au thorit kes for not clearing th e trucks to t he Pst hanpur indus- Union Carbide site in Ithopa! tral area in Dhar distict, 250 despitedirec tions fromeventhe Im away from Ihopat. The to xic waste is being shited in 12 sealed contsiner truck s Stpreme Court and set a forIr *12 containa truckscarry. to Pitampur industrial arca, 2s0 km awsy from Shopat wckdcadline to shift thcwaste. Ing the waste set off on a non. cbserving th2t even 40 yean stop joumcy around 9 pm.A Cas Tragedy Relicf and Rcha. the waste in trucks *Thcy #t r the gas tragcdy,authoritic green corrhlor has been cre. bilie atlon Department Direc- underwent heahh check-ups werena'stateofherth. ated forthe vehides wtidh are tor Swatantra Ku marSin gh. and were given re st eery 30 The high court bcnch had expected to reach Pithampur He sa U aroun! 100 peopke mInutes"he added.. warned the government of industrial area in Dhar district worked in 30-minute shifts Hlighly toxic methyl so contempt proteedings if its In seven hours, sald Bhopal shnce Sunday to pack and Ioad cyanate (M1C) gas leaked from dlrective was not folowed.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 201910.png]
Employment up 36% between FY15, FY24 EmpLOyment inthe JOB DETAILS country has increasedby 36% to 643.3 million in Tot jobs (in mllion} 2023-24lr0m 471.5 million in 2014-15, 4713 "reflecting an improvement in jobs scenario* under the NDA Growth(%)-7 36 regime, labour minister 2003-041 2014-151 Mansukh Mandaviya said 2023-24 OnT hursday, citing Growth in employmtnt (%) Official data. Under the UPA regime (2003-04 to - Fy05 to FY14 Fy15 to FY23 2014-15), cmployment Agric ulture had grown only 7%, he -16 said. Mandaviya said  Unemployment rate under the UPA 19 dropped from 4% in Fys govemment just 29 Manufacturing to 3.2% n FY24 milli on addit ional jobs  Worker Population Ration were created whereas. under the Modi 15 Wpr} ro$e fom 46.$% n FY18 to 58.2% in FY24 govemment, 171.9 Services million jobs were added. 25  Employability of the In 2023-24 alone, around 36 youth grew from 3s.tsx in 46 milionjobs were 2913 to 54#% n 2026 createdin the country.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202115.png]
DoT likelyto shelve BSNL's VRS QUICKPICKS Varun Beverages to proposal amid union protests invest 412 cr in SA VARUN BEVERAGES (VBL).the leading battler of PepsiCo, on Jatin Grover Thur sdsy announced to irnest. New Delhi, January 2 VRS STATUS (412 crore inits ScuthAfric an wbsdiary Beverage Comparry AFTER UPROAR FROM thc  Consitations with BCG Proprietary (Bevco). Bevco, an employces' un lons, the department to proceed betore decision. BSNL existng subsidary cf vbl is of telecommunications (DoT) has BCG paid &232 crore engaged in the bus ness cf likcly put the second yoluntary for B$Nt revival plan manut sc turing and d stribut ion o! tetrement scheme (VRS) propaat Connteting in icersed products from Peps iCa. for BsNLon hcld,ofadals said. VRS could VRS The telecom departnient will Nasscom foundation reduce BSNL's hold further consultations inter. cost to nalty andis alsoerpected toiocp in govemnent esnt's los?  BSNL targets names Jyoti as CEO X$rq 215,000 cr Boston Consuting Group (BCQ) narrowed to 25% ma rket share $,785 cror? NAsscOm FOunDAT ION before gdng ahead whh the pro. by year-end  VRs aims to moke BSnL (Apr sepy anounced the appointment of posal. Notably, ICG is bcing paid  Unions oppose profitable by FY27 Jyoti Sharma as its new chief 132 crore, to daw a revival pian Revenu grew VRS,baming txecutive officer, tffectve for BSNL and hxlp it to competc B$nL ssnt <8,304 crore mismanagement immediately. Succ eeding Nidhi with private players. on salaries in FY24 <9,235 er by gout and 85NL Bh asin, Sharma brings over 20 Last week, the B$Ni, manage. years of experience in driving ment had approved the proposal tocial impact and leading for a secon! VRS scheme for BSNL. expected to submit Its report MS Adasud, general seaetary of program development, Upon implementatton, the VRS within two months and post that a Sanchar Ngam Executives Associ Iesource mobilistion, and shene would haveled to reduc- Tnal dec!sion wtl be taken. Hy? urau you $aop iI, 'prs uqjt #akchokder engagement tion in atIcast 35%of its wrkfore Wh en con tacted, DCG rfusdto the offiars in Dot continue tc of over 5 6,000 execut hves and non- comment on the mutter. blame cnly the warkforce of BSNI Waaree Energies cxecutires cmployees.The same *The flawed policies df the Gor. for any faitures and it is required would have Ied to an outgo of wins 150 MWp order emment andthe Ineffidency of the that oficers In Dot also need tc t15,000crae forthe government. BSNL management has con. take responsibd ity forits decs ion' Waaree Energies on Thur sday The government's Intent tributed to B$Nl's present sltua- Acmrding to Adasul,the aseda. uid it has secured an order to behind bringing another VRs for tion. However,inxtead of sectifying t ions have taken up the mat ter wit: supply sdar modules totallirg a BSNL  toreduce its anployce costs their mistakes, both the manage. DoT and BSNL managcmnt and it capacity o!150 mwp for a In a bid to nuake the company prof. ment and the governnient try to will continue to oppose such YR? maior renewable project in Itable by FY27. BSNl Incurred paint a picture that the cmployees proposal In 2020,when the first Indis, The contract includes the <&304 crore towards salaries, strength of BSNL Is the reason far VRS was Implemented In BSXL, thx wpply ofWaaree's flagship wages, allowances, andotherbene. the wocs of the company* said P. capcctation was that around high-efficiency Glass N-type fits, whlch was 43% of its operating Abhlmanyu, general seaetary of  30,000 to 35,000 en ployees woud Topcon bifacisl modules, rated revenue in FY24. BSNL Employces Union in a Icttet opt for it However, around s0,o0C xt S8s/590wp. Fe 0ureaus rn BSNL officials saId ecG ls to BSNI CAID. employees took VRS.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202143.png]
2w sales skid 9%, lowest in over a year SWARaJ bAGGONKAr Mumbai, January 2 FIGURES DWINDLE Domestic sales Despatches of motORcycLes and s cootcrs of fivc of Indias top six Hero MotoCor p ma nufacturers to dealers felf 9% 3 303332 year-on ycar during December as 18 A326004 destocking effortt and bwer reta. demand tooka tcilon despatchcs. Hero MotoCorp, TVs Motor [{unit s] Teeow.ren Company, Bajaj Auto, Royal En ficld Dec 202 3 67.891 and  Suruxi 'cdlectlvely sold cotng poumywith ky ,291 815,000vhides duringthreport  Dec 2024 $A product Lunche Incud Ing month, These manufacturers Matr Ingexpansonctey cont ml nearly 70% cf the dbmestic 713.073 portfolo furthe two wheekr market, Though ydl. unes were exxtedtobe muled for Strengtbenin of prem!. 1 December for all manufacturers, Um porfotio and ns.) exapt Royal Enfeld,they Lailed to 19 Scoter modelrn meet the expectation of analysts. The fal In voumes was led by Bagj Royal Suz uki ICE sgment India's largest two-whecler make? Auto Enfeld Hero AotoCopwhkh sold 324,000 ToAyst pdope'nrun Nranjan Gupta,chJef executive Auto, Indla's fourth Largest two. tIve dlrector, Baa|Auto sald h an 215,075 unkts.The company's elec. officer (CEO) of Hcro MotoCorp wteela maker,slid by 19%yo y to interview with CNEC TV18. tric vhick division sw a 79% said,*As we Iook forward to 2025. 128,000 unis. The company It would not be corect to growth hn vohumcs to 20.171 unit. We are poised for an exciting jour. dow nsl zed it s stock during Decem- extrapolate data from July am! Led by the rural segment, the ney with key product launches ber toenter the new yearwith min- December, wtidh are dead months. two -whccler category has reported Inckxding expansion of EV port fo- In al ianventory kading toa fallin its The year-to-date growth Is 5% of strong growth in everynonth (y-o- Ho, further strengthening of pre- dis patchvdumes motorcycles and we expect Q-1 to be y) dnce August 2023.Demand for mlum portfollo and new scooter *Decenber volu mes were au per 1 6-84 (growth) zane* Sharma EVs hus aiso been rcbust In almost models in ICE sgment. We bcieve cxpecta tiors. Some advancment added. cach of these months adding to the anlnprovement in the broadercus. TVS Aotor Company's total far OvenI vokume growth. tomer sentiment may lead to cven pens and model year change in December wa s nc arly unchanged Royal Enficld buckd the tend. stronger demand recovery for us 2025 leads to low sales In Decem- compared to the samie month Lxst to post a grow th of 194 In Decem. Anspu! y pue br,We took the opportunity to cor. year. The compa ny saw an addition ber to 67,891 uniks on thc back ot Volume of Pune-based Baja] rect stocks, Rakesh Shanma, execl- of just 87 unlts duringthemonthto new Laundes.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202303.png]
Smartworks takes 480,000 sq ft in. Gurugram for <94-cr rent peryear RAGHAVENDRA KAMATH TOP CO-WORKING LEASING DEALS Mumbai, January 2 Rate Area City CO- WORKING PLAYER Landlord Tenant (Eper sqft) (Sqft) SmaRTwORKs has Ieased Pune S S Propertiese Smartworks Coworking Spaces] 0 72.5 6,13,451 480,000sq ft in aDLFproperty inGurgaon at an annual rent of Gurugram DLF Smartworks Coworking Spaces. 0 165 4,78,327 94.68 crore for six years. Bangalore Manyata Promoters Wework India Management 0 76 3,49,346 The space is Iocated in DLF Gurugram  Mantaa India Company Incuspaze Solutions 0 58 2,33,441 Commercial Building Block -3 Chennai Airoli ITP Development Tablespace Technologies 0 in DLF City-Phase 5, Gurgaon, 93 2,14,786 according to data accessed by Hyderabad  K Raheja IT Park (Hyderabad)  | Tablespace Technologies 0 74 1 1,96,392 Propstack. The monthly rent amounts to <7.89 coreor<165 per square feet per month, it  The company has access said, adding that the deposit to a total of six floors, including amount is 247.35 crore. the ground floor, and The company has accessto 794 car parking spaces a total of six floors, induding the ground floor, and 794 car  The company has a tota! parking spaces.The agreement has arental escalation of 9%in super built-up area of November 2027. 9.12 million square feet, The company has a total across 45 centres in 13 cities super built-uparea of 9.12 mil- lion squarefeet, across45 cen- tresin13 cties. new centre operational by Feb- to cater to the evolvingneedsof gram in recent months.  This is the fourth managed ruary2025, it said in a rdease. the modern workspaces. Recently, WeWork India, a campus for Smartworks in Neetish Sarda, founder, Smartworks has been flexible workspace provider, Gurugram, in addition to the Smartworks,said,*Thisexpan- actively taking spaces on Iease Ieased a two-floor building of. existing campuses situated in sion aligns with our commit- intherecentmonths.InAugust, nearly 117,000 sq ft in DLF Golf View Corporate Towers ment of empowering enter- it reportedlytook 613,000sqft Cybercity, Gurugram.  The (Golf Course Road), RK4 Square prises by providing tailored o ffice in Punefor anannual rent company alsotook two floorsof (Cyber City), and ASF Insignia office solutions in Iarge cam- of nearly <50 crore.It also took 126,000 sq ft in DLF Cybercity, (Vatsal Valley). Smartworks is pus settings,equipped with a a 450,000 sq ft office and Manapakkam, Chennai, the working towards making the rangeof amenities and services 100,o00 sq ft offices in Guru- reportssaid.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202707.png]
NEW ORLEANS ATTACK AND VEGAS BLAST RAISE US SECURITY FEARS Tesla Cybertruck explodes outside Trump's Vegas hotel REUTERS Las Vegas, Janvary 2 A TesLA CyBeRt RucK expIoded in flames outside theTrumpInter- national Hotel Las Vegas on Wednesday, killing the driver and injuring seven others, and the FBI was investigating whether the blast was an act of terrorism, offi- cials said. Videostaken bywitnessesinside and outside the hotel showed the vehicle ex ploding and flames pour- ing out of it, as it sat outside the hotel. The incident occurred just hours after a man drove a truck into crowds of NewYear's Day revelers in New Orleans, killing15.. TheTrump International Hotel in Las Vegas is part of the Trump Organization, the company of Flames rise froma Tesla Cybertruck afterit exploded outside Trump International Hotel Las Vegas in Nevada on President-elect Donald Trump, Thursday. The blast claimed the life of one person and resulted in injuriesto seven people REUTE RS who will return to the White House on January 20. Tesla CEO Elon said. He added that the FBI had New Orleans attack: Accused Musk was a keybackerof Trumpin identified the person driving the his 2024 presidentiaI campaign  vehicle, which had been rented in was inspired by Islamic State and is also an advisertothe incom- Colorado, but was not yet readyto ing president.. publiclyidentifythe driver. "Obviously a Cybertruck, the Musk said the blast was unre- A US ARMY veteran who drove a  guns and animprovised explosive Trump hotel - there's Iotsof ques- Iated to the Cybertruck itself. pickup truck into a crowd of New device in the vehide  which bore tions that we have to answer," Las "We have now confirmed that Year's revelers in New Orleans, theflagof the Islamic Stategroup-- Vegas Metropolitan Police Depart- the explosion was caused by very  killing 15 people, had posted videos  along with other explosive devices ment Sheriff Kevin McMahill said large fireworks and/or a bomb car- to social media hoursbeforethecar- elsewhereinthe city's FrenchQuar- at an afternoon press conference. ried in the bed of the rented nage saying he was inspired by the ter. FBI speciaI agent in charge Cybertruck and is unrelated to the Islamic State group and expressing The FBI identified the driver as JeremySchwartz later told reporters vehideitself," Musk said in apost on a desire to kill, the president said. Shamsud-Dine that it was not yet dlear whetherthe X."All vehicle telemetrywas positive The FBI said it was investigating Jabbar,42, a US citizen from Texas. blast was an act of terrorism. at the time of theexplosion." early Wed nesday's attack in which Jabbar joined the Army in 2007. "I know everybody's interested Telemetry involves the auto- the driver steered around a police serving on active duty in human in that word,and tryingtoseeifwe matic collection of data from blockadeand dammedintorevelers resourcesandinfomationtechnol- can say, 'Hey, this is a terrorist remote sources, transmitting it beforebeing shot dead bypoliceas a  ogy and deploying to Afghanistan attack. That is our goal, and that's back to a central source so it can terrorist act and did not believe he from 2009 to 2010, the servicesaid. what we're trying to do," Schwartz Iater beanalySed.. acted alone. Investigators found AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202739.png]
US jobless claims fall |A Apple offers big discounts on to eight-month low new iPhone models in China BLOOMBERG The current levels for initial REuTERS  Janvary 2 daims are subdued and consistent Beijing, Janvary 2 STEAL DEALS with a job market where firms are InItiaL AppLiCatiOnS fOr US  generally holding onto their work- APPLE IS OFFERING rare dis-  iPhone 16 Pro withstarting unemployment capped 2024 at an counts of up to 500 yuan ($68.50) 0'J ers.  price of7,999 yuan, iPhone 16 cight-month low, reflecting the rd- The US la bor market is ending on its Iatest iPhone models in Pro Max with starting priceof atively muted levels of job cutsin a the year in what Federal Reserve China, as the US tech giant moves 9,999 yuan will see discount of Iabor market t hat hasremained sur- Chair Jerome Powell described this to defend its market share against  500 yuan  prisingly resilient. month as a"solid shape" rising competition from domestic A spike in the unemployment  iPhone 16, iPhone 16 Plus will New claims fell by 9,000 to rivals like Huawei. 211,000in theweekended Decem- rate over the summer had raised  The four-day promotion, run- receive400 yuan reduction ber 28, Iower than all but one esti- alarms, prompt ing policymakers to ning from January 4-7, applies to  Market share in China declining mate in a Bloomberg survey. Mean- cut interest rates by a half-percent- several iPhone models when pur- while continuing applications, a age point in Septembertohelp sup. chased using specific payment proxy for the number of people port employment More recent data methods, accordingtoits website. iPhone 16 and iPhone 16 Plus will sures, with the country's consumer receiving benefits, also fell, to a have pointed toa Iabor market that  The flagship iPhone1 6 Pro with receive a 400 yuan reduction.. inflation hitting a five-month Iow three-month Iow of 1.84 million in is moderatingbut remains broadly a starting price of 7,999 yuan and The discounts come as con-  in November. Apple is grappling. the week ended December 21, solid. It is cooling, but not in a way theiPhone16 Pro Max with a start- sumers remain cautious with with declining market share in according to Labor Department that would raise concerns, Powell. ing price of 9,999 yuan will see the spending amid China's slowing China, the world's Iargest smart-  data released Thursday.. said at a press briefing.. highest discount of 500 yuan. The economy and deflationary pres-  phonemarket.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202819.png]
First in a decade: Tesla annual EV sales drop KARA CARLSON slowdown in EV sales.Andit hastold Janvary 2 investors that demand for its all- electrics is between two major TESLA'S ANNUAL VEHICLE saIes growth waves. In April, the Austin-  dropped for the first time in more based automaker cut more than than a decade despite a year-end 10% of its workforce, including  push that sent deliveries to a record sales staff. in the fourth quarter. Even so, Tesla said as recently as The Elon Musk-Ied company Octoberthat it expected to achieve sold 1.79 million vehicles last year, modest growth in its ddiveries for  it said Thursday, which was slightly all of 2024. The EV maker had Iess than what it delivered in 2023 pushed a myriad of deals rdated to and also below analysts' consensus financing, charging and Ieases to estimate. end-of-year buyers. The results offer a sobering Musk told investors on Tesla's reminder of the real-world chal- Iatest earnings call that he sees 20% Ienges for EV makers, even as hype  to 30% growth this year, fueled in around driverless cars and Musk's  part by a more affordable vehicle closenesswith President-elect Don- expected to be unveiled in the first ald Trump have sent TesIa's stock half and on the company's soaring in recent months. Luke- autonomous technology. The EV warm consumer demand is weigh- maker has said little about what ing on sales of dectric cars, an issue that new vehide will Iook like or that could be exacerbated by whatits price will be.. Trump's push to rein in EV incen- Thereisalready some doubt over tives. the company's ability to achieve Tesla's shares sank after the Musk's 2025 growthobjective, par- results, falling 5.8% as of 10.49 ticularly if EV tax credits are rolled amin NewYork.Thestockrose 63% back under Trump. The president. in 2024. elect has been critical of Joe Biden. Forthe quarter ended Dec. 31,it era EV policies and the EVtax credit. delivered495,570vehicles,missing which Musk claimed in JuIy would the512,277analysts had projected hurt Tesla in the near term - but It needed to sell nearly 51s,000 hurt Tesla's competitors more. vehicles in the quarter to meet its At the same time, Trump also is  expected to Ioosen federal rules on year. self-driving vehicles, which could In a note to clients, Barday'sana-  benefit Tesla and it s robotaxi ambi- Iyst Dan Levywrote that the data tions. Musk was a top Republican offered "nochangetonarrative,but donorin 2024. reinforces challenge for'25 growth BLOOMBERG  on existing models,relianceon still unknown Model 2.5." TesIa faced a series of set- backs in 2024, indudingan arson attack at its Berlin. factory, shipping diversions and an industry-wide

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 202927.png]
Lessons from Manmohan Singh Singh, as an RBI governor living through the permissive Ashima goyal 1980s, understood the value of fiscal conservatism and Emeritus professor, Indira Gand hi Institute implemented it as finance minister. of Development Research, Mumbai INADDrtiON TOtohisinvaluablecontri- judicial institutions of necessity for eco- ital account convertibilityand had to rev- ernor living through the permissive butions, Manmohan Singh has Ieft pow- nomic expertise did yield results. erse its position after a series of financial  1980s, understood thevalue offiscal con- erful Iessons for us wit hhis personality as While Singh's credentials as a liber- crises. They also demonstrated indepen- servatism andimplementedit as finance well as his policysuccesses and failures aliser are justly celebrated, the fourth dent,sophisticated, and reevant thinking. minister.However, his FMs chose tospend Asaperson,heretained hisgentleness, under-appreciated Iesson is the subtlety Asecond example isthe exchangeratere- more,evenduringthehighgrowthperiod humility, and simplicity, however exalted and context-sensitivity of India's liberal-  gime set thenafteran initial double deval- of the 2000s, and even more after the his post. Lesson one thus is that decency isingreforms They followed a gradualist uation, and Iargely followed since. The global financal crisis. As money was plus ability gets results, despite views to path carefully laid out by committees of range of movenent has varied butitcont- pumped into agriculture without rdiev- the contrary. It gave him the opportuni- experts, consistent with India's structure inues to be market-detemined, withint- ingsupplyconstraints,food inflation sus- tieshe wanted to serve the country. and needs.As an example, consider the er vent ion onlyto prevent excessvo lat ility. tained at double digits. RuraI wages rose Withhissharpintellect and deepexpe- sequencing of capital account convert- This "middle way" between fixed and so sharply that there was unprecedented rience within the system, he understood ibility, where liberalisation was more for free-floating exchange rates reduced growth in real wages. But inflation soon what was feasible. While he did not waste foreign direct and equity flows and the spoiled the partyas monetarytightening his time tilting at windmills, he showed Ieast for short-term debt. mentwithout painfuldom- Iowered growth.In a populous country, tremendous courage and persistence in Debt inflows were capped as One ofthe lessons estic deflation or inflation rising agricultural productivityis a pre- whateverheundertook.The"n faroshiki a percentage of domestic via multiple instruments. condit ion for sustained inclusive growth. for the government. tamanna" wasclearinhisfamous Budget market size.As a result, cap- Letting the currency freely  The Iessonsfor the govemment today speech. While we can wish he had done ital flows rose, along with today is the depreciate can cause real are the importance of inproving govern- more, especially in his second term as the deepening of the dom- exchangerateappreciation importance of mentfinancesingood timesand of reliev- Prime Minister, there were the compul- estic market Thus, diversity through in flation, whichis ingthe cruciaIsupply-side constraints.For improving its sionsofa coalitiongovernment and a viti- increased but volatility was Iess desirable than nominal example,current largemoneytranfers to contained. This approach finances during ated national at mosphere. exchange rateappreciation. Iow-income women will further increase The Indian voter seems to have Iearnt saved India from spillovers  good times This has sometimeshelped demand for a diversified food basket. this lesson and has Iargely voted stable during the East Asian crises manage inflation in an States, therefore, must first improve veg. governmentssince,bothat the Centreand or the Iarge interest rate econony dependant on oil etable supply chains and remove barriers  in states while keeping competition alive volatilitythat Indonesia ex perienced dur- imports. All emerging market central to private participation in marketing. and often punishing non-performance ing the tapertantrum, evenas rising cap-  banks hold reserves and intervene which Stroke-of-the-pen reforms are easy. The Iesson for governments is that it alin flows cont ributed to the so phistica- serves an essential precautio nary purpose, Domestic supply-side reforms, where aIthough ddiveryis made more feasible, tion of our markets. On this pat htowards reducingrisk premia Our policymakers, statesareinvolved,arenotUPA-IIsuffered re-dectionisconditionalonperfomance. fullercapital convertibility,administrative wit h Singh attheheIm, understood these because they opted for stinulus without  Many of the corruption allegations freedoms will rise, even as foreign capital issues in the 1990s while textbook free- first cdlearing domestic impediments.The during the second tenure of the United approaches anatural shareofabout 10% marketers still do not. finallessonsaretheimportanceofretain. Progressive Alliance (UPA) turned out to in deep domestic markets, which will be As the controller of capital issues was. ing independence from external pres- be overdone.But theyoriginated fromtoo ableto absorbits volatility. abolished,the Securities and Exchange suresto addressdomesticpriorities.These much discretion in resource allocation Thus, our policymakers understood Board of India was set up. It was well interests want to prioritise refoms to evenasgrowthwas drivinguptheirvalue. emerging market risks better than the understood that liberalisation meant attract more foreign capital. But doing so Systemic improvements and a better InternationalMonetaryFund,whichwas, smartly regul at ed, not free, markets. without first releasing keydomestic con- understanding among regulatory and in the1990s,pushingstronglyforfull cap. Singh, as a Reserve Bank of India gov- straintscan bedangerous

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-03 203142.png]
Captain Rohit to miss Sydney Test, 'opts to rest'  SRIRAM VEERA ference) anything traditional. an "honest" communication Sydney, Janvary 2  The head coach is here and that with the players, he said: "And should befine,"heresponded. there were some honest words, THE EARLY HINT of India cap- But,he slowlybegantoreaxa that's allI can say.And honestyis tain Rohit Sharmasitting outof bit, and even smiled.Asked how. very important. Honesty is the final Test of the Border- he was handling the difficult extremely important if you Gavaskar Trophy at Sydney period of transtion inthe tean, want to probably go on and came from head coachGautam he said:*It's the role of not only achieve somegreat things. Gambhir. "We shall Iook atthe the support st aff butyou people In particular, Gambhir pitch and take a call tomorrow," (the media) as well. Howcanyou, addressed theneed for playersto CREAMU he said at the pre-match press  pro bably,not onlycriticisethem  strike a balance between playing conference hereonThursday. but try and help them out as. their"natural game"and adjust- It'srare for theindusion of a well?Transitionisnot onlyforus ingtothematchsituation.*It'sa team captain being subject to Transition happens forthe entire team sport and you've got to the natureof the pitch.. country and all of us are in it.  playwhattheteam needs youto Later, Rohit had alight net together" do.That'sassimple session, facing a few casual As ever with It's rare for as it can get. People throwdowns. Therewas no offi- Gambhir, there the inclusion  can play their nat - cial announcement, but by were some frank of a team captain uralgame,butstill, evening the word was out -- statements.He being subject in a team sport, Rohit, who has been struggling talked about how individuals only to the nature of for runs, had *opted to rest" the Indian team contribute. It's the while vice-captain Jasprit Bum- haslacked fight" the pitch team. If you need rah would Iead the side. at times in this.  to play in a cert ain The team scemed to take the series. "We've got way, I think you've change at the top in its stride. to keep fightingand that's why got todoit." After the press conference, Ro- we love...every one of us loves On the field later, the Indian hit, Bumrah and Gambhir were watching,playing and being a  team seemed to be preparingfor seen sitting in the bucket-seats part of Test cricket. I know we lifewithout Rohit The first point outside their dressing room -- have got to fightitout.And t hat's ofinterest was the slip cordon, chatting, back-slapping and probably one area where we've the position where Rohit usually Laughing. Afterthis short meet- Iac ked in thisseries"hesaid.  places himse fat the start of the ing, Rohit walked towards the Asked whether hehad given game. The cordon had a new team bus,tobegrected bya roar a stern talk to the players in the face: all-rounder Nitish Reddy. from a small cro wd lined upout- Rohit Sharma and Jasprit Bumrah in the nets, in Sydney  dressing room, as reported by A short while later, Gambhir side. "Rohit, Rohit," they cha- on Thursday, ahead of the final Test. VH33A HY yS The Indian Express on Wednes- went down to the arena, fist. nted, and the rested captain day, Gambhir first said these bumped ShubmanGill an d pat- gavea big smileas hesauntered Bumrah could be  seen about the captain's absence at were "just reports, but went on ted him on his back. Gill then into the bus. engrossed in a Iong chat before the traditional pre-game press to add that he had an *honest" found Bumrah approaching It was an unusual day. The Rohit joined then. conference: *Is everything conversationwith theteam. him-a shake of hands ensued pre-match press conference, Gambhir then walked the alrightwith Rohit?. "Those are just reports.  before Bumrah patted him on slated to start at 1.10 pm, corridor to the press-room'to Gambhir stiffened up. That's not thetruth.And I don't. the arm. It did seem like the started neardyhalf-an-hour late; address the m edia contingent. *Everythingis fine with Rohit think I need to answer (on) any moment Gill was possibly told word came out that the team Very earlyin theinteraction,an and I don't think it's (the cap- reports, to be honest, he stated. that he would play, replacing was in a mecting. Gambhirand Australian journalist asked tain's presence at the press con- Going onto admit that he had Rohit in the top order.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 172349.png]
out lin ed through government noti- approach.  and accountability. Social security Re fall drives forward fications. Officials suggest that Thedraft mandatesthat signifi- these measures aim to safeguard  cant data fiduciaries conduct Continued on Page 10 framework for After buoyant start to 2025, premium rates past gig workers March 2022 high by early FY26 reality check for indices  PRIYA NSH VERMA  KISHOR KADAM New Delhi, January 3 ANUPREKSHAJAIN  WEEKLY GAINS AT A NEW LOW  Mumbai, January 3 Top Sensex gainers (weekly,x) Mumbai, Janvary 3 the gOvernment is likely to AFTER RISING 2.3% in the first two 9.19 Jan 2 introduce a framework to provide WITH THE RUPEE touching yet  Jan 2 (close) The dolbr?  days ofthe calendar year, investors 7.72 7.26  social security coverage to gig and 79,943 anotherlow of 85.81 a dollar, before 85.76 rupee resorted to profit-booking on Friday,  platfom workers in the next fourto settling at 85.78 on Thursday, for- forward 5.31  Ieading to adedine of upto 0.90%in 4.67 five months,officialsources said.The ward premiumrates haveincreased premiums are  the benchmark indices However, the  plan to roll out the benefits for the to multi-yearhighs. Driven by huge Used by firms indices managed to close the week fast-growing laboursegment byearly liquidity defictin the bankingsys. tomake forex with gains of up to 0.80%, marking next fiscal is despitethe fact that the  temandan increasein hedgingbets . hedging the second consecutive weeklyrise. implementation of the four Iabour by importers, the one-month doI- The Sensex opened over 129 Jan'3 codes, approved by Parliament in  Iar/rupee forward premium rose to points higher but slipped into neg. 79,223  2020/2021,is beingdelayed. 3.30%, the highest since March ative territoryand remained there "As of now, the design of the 2022. The one-year forward rate throughout thesession,endingthe *between December 27 and January 3 framework (for gig workers' social rose to 2.5 4%, highest since Octo- no Jan 3 day at 79,223.11, down 720.60 Dec 27, 2024 security) is not final. Whether a  ber2022. (close) points, or 0.90%. Similarly, the Mcap gain/loss (in < crore) 78,699 schemeisintroducedto provide social The dollar-rupee forward pre- 85.78 NSE's Nifty fell 183.90 points, or Jan1.  security to them, or some provisions  mium is used by companies to make 0.76%, to close at 24,004.75. The Dec 30 2025 -96,154 of the Code on Social Security (CSS) forexhedging decsions.Ahigher for- 2024 benchmark indices had gained 78,507 will beinvo ked...hastobe seen, said a ward premium indicates that the 0.47% and 1.83% on Wednesday Dec 31  per son aware of thedevelopment. market expects 63,615 and Thursday, respectively, driven  2024 "However, the framework most INSIDE the rupee rise in The Reserve  Importers say by demand for auto, IT, and finan- Jan 01 2,43,952  likeywould beintro duced before the thefuture. Dec 31 I mobius: weak! Bank ofIndia in thenear cal sector shares. Dec 30 2025 labour codesare officially notified by  RUPEE MAY Any changeor 6T'83 (RB) has been *The markets remained volatile term, the rupee 78,248 the Central govemment, the person Givea Leg-Up inversion in the  Jan 02 6,03,942 sellingddlarsin may fall past throughout the week, with multi- added. The govemment is aimingto To exports premium curve 2025 the spot market the 86/$ mark  ple factors influencing investor  provide such workers with health & PAGE 6 could impact the Sensex Jan 03 -69,216 tenure of the to support the due toa sentiment. 0 life insurance,accidentinsurance,and 2025 rupee  strong dollar  pension coverage. hedges and thus, a company's ded- Continued on Page 10 According to NitiAayog,there were sion on taking a hedge "Continuous  intervention through buy/sell swaps dol lars in the spot market to suppor  2020-21,whidareestimatedtoriseto  have Ied tothis inversion in the for- the rupee. This has drained out th. Swiggy,Zomato  Sebi warning GenAl intensifies 23.5 million by2029-30. ward premium curve," said a forex  rupee liquidity from the bankingsys Thegovemment ismullingto pro- trader with astate-owned bank" tem. In the last few days, the systen. to retain 10 fee for JM Financial  vide the gig and plat form workers a pricing pressure Importers say that in the near- liquiditycrosed the deficitof<2 lakt unique identity like the Aadhaar, term, the rupee may fall past 86/$ crore In the day, the rupee touche. FOOD DEL IVERY platforms Zomato THE sECURITIES and Exchange THE RAPID adoption of GenAI is which would be accessible by all the  mark due toa strongdo llar, supported all-time Iowof 85.81/$,before set Board of India (Sebi) has issued JM reshaping spen ding pattemsinthe IT  companies, who hire them, namely tling at 85.78/$ against 85.76/$ Or charging customers the increased  Financial an administ rative warning services industry, but thistechnolog- Zomato, Swiggy,Zepto, Urban Com- tariff policies ofthenewUS President, Thursday.Although,the movementir  platform fee of 10 per order even for regulatory non-compliance dur- ical shift is intensif ying pricing pres.  panyetc The uniqueidentitywillstore DonaldTrump,said forex traders.This therupee wasrange bound due to tht aft er the festive season ends, sources ing the initial public offering (IPO) of  sures for providers reports Padmini all the information of the workers, has prompted themto increasehedg- RBI's intervention but denand fron. aware of the mattertold FE, reports its dient, Western Carrier (India), Dhruvaraj. Despite the growing such as their monthly eamings, past  ing bets on the dollar/rupee, pushing  oil companies and importers Ied th.  Anees Hussain. The platforms had reportsAkshataGorde.Sharesof the demand for GenA I, clients are increas- work records, etc. the near-term forward rates upvards. rupee to touch another all-timelow. raised their fees to 10 in October investmert bankingfirm closed 2.3%  inglydemanding that efficiencygains At the same time, the Reserve 2024.PAGE 4 I Iowerat 129.90 on Friday.PAGEs I be passed on to then.  pAGEs Continued on Page 10 Bank of India (RBI) has been selling Continued on Page 10

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 172433.png]
GOODS AND SERVICES EXPORTS TO CROSS $8OO BN THIS FISCAL: MINISTER India looking for deep ties 0 with Trump govt:   Goyal MUKESH JAGOTA New Delhi, Janvary 3 India is LOoking forward to a  dee pand substantive engagement with the incomingTrumpadmin- istration that assumes office Iater. this month, commerce and indus- try minister Piyush Goyal said On Friday. *I have had the privilege of workingwith thatadministration personally also. Everyone of our engagements over the years have only got better and better,he told reporters. As the time for the inaugura- tion of Trump draws near, the world is eagerly waiting for its moves on threats regarding import tariffs that have been dished out by US President-elect Donald Trump to its key trading partners after winningelections in November last year. On radar for higher duties are Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal (left) co-chaired a meeting with minister of stateJitin Prasada China, Canada, Mexico, European to discuss strategies for boosting exports. Union, members of BRics as a whole. On some occasions, India year thatends on March 31. and good s exports have expanded, "It means many more opportu- has been singled out by Trump for "Given the current world situ- the year has also seen record trade nities for people tostart new busi- imposing higher tariffs on ation where world trade is con- deficitsin merchandise trade. nesses in India and invest in india. US imports. tracting or under stress this "Imports are a sign of a grow- It shows that there is a demand for. On India's trade prospectsin the growth will be creditable." ing economy. It shows there has consumer goods which encour- coming year, Goyal said both goods In April-November, India's  been a demand for machinery and ages people to invest in India.This and services exports cumulatively cumulative exports stand at equipment,inputs and intermedi- ultimatelyis Ieading up to a great will cross $800 billion this financial $536.2 billion. While both services ate products. growth story, Goyal said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 172649.png]
India's smartphone market to Tata Elxsi joins Qualcomm for hit $50-bn milestone in 2025 future mobility FE BUREAU TATA ELXSI PLANS to collaborate New Delhi, Janvary 3. LEAGUES AHEAD Companies focuson with Qualcomm Technologies to premiu sunches to develop and Ieveragevirtual models the Country's SmaRtphOne The retail average  The premium Cnhanco brand eguty of Snapdragon Digital Chassis solu- market is expected to cross $50 bil- endpofitabtity selling price (ASP) is segment tions for doud-native application lion (4.3 lakh crore) in value in expected to cross (over 230,000) CApploand Samsung development. The partnership will 2025, according to Counterpoint the$300 mark is projected to tadtheshrt towards focusonadvancingSoftware-Defined Research. (around t25,700) Vehicle (SDv) tec hnologiesandwill be exceed 20% premium and tltrs? Thegrowth will be driven by the forthe first time market share in demonstrated at the Consmer Eec- premiumseoments  premiumisation trend,rise in inter-  this year tronics Show(CES) 2025.y in 2025 CStrong demand for est forhigher-specification devices As part of the collaboration, Tata Apph's Pro modesduo and value-centric approach from Elxsi will develop a virtualelectronic tlocalmanufsctring smartphone companies. In 2021, control unit (ECU) platform for the smartphone market value was and price cuts automakers and Tier-1 suppliers. at $37.9 billion(3.25 lakh crore). shittopremiumation This platform will utilise Snap. Further, theretailaverageselling . Bslsofuded byincreased) dragon virtual system-on-chips  price (ASP) of India's smartphone cdine store purchases (VSoCs) to support the next genera- market is expected to cross the tion of mobility solutions acrosspas- $300 (around 25,700) mark for  senger, commercial,and off-highway the first timein 2025.. (over <30,000)isprojected to exceed mium segment (over 45,000), vehiclesegments. Analysts said the market is 20%market sharein this year. anal ysts said. By reducing the dependency on evolving rapidly, with companies Apple is expected to see strong In the affordable premium cate-  hardware availability,theprojectaims focusing on premium launches to demand for its pro models, driven  gory30,000-45,000,brandssuchas to streamline product development strengthen brand equity, showcase by Iocal manufacturing and recent vivo, OPPO and OnePlus are attract-  lifecycles,facilitating faster and more technological capabilities and  price reductions across its iPhone ing consumers by offering advanced efficient delivery of advanced mobil- improve profitability. Brands like  lineup. Samsung's value-focused camera systems and refined CMF ity solutionsto the market.. Appleand Samsungareleadingthis strategyis gaining traction,partic- (colour, material and finish) designs. Tata EIxsi'sAV ENIR SDV suite of shift by offering competitive ularly with its flagship S series. According to Counterpoint, the solutions,integratedwith Qualcomn options in the premium and ultra- OnePlus, with the launch of its shift towardspremiumisation isalso Technologies'Snapdragon Ride Flex premium segments. flagship OnePlus 13, is aiming to  being driven by consumers increas- SoC, will be showcased at CES2025. Therefore the premium segment increase its share in the ultra-pre- ingly opting for offline stores.. FE BUREAU

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 172841.png]
POLITBURO LAST MONTH EASED THE NATION'S MONETARY POLICY STANCE FOR THE FIRSTTIME IN 14 YEARS China's central bank likely to cut rates this year REUTERS  economy away from state-directed Yuan slips to near POLICY SHIFT Beijing, January 3 Itmoye  bank lending.. yfrom Analysts say the role of capital CHINA'S CENTRaL BANK said it is itatlye  markets in financing growth also likely to cut interest rates from the sforon requires deepstructural changesin 14-month low the econonry alongsideinterest rate priate time"in 202 5, the Financial reform.  Times reported on Friday citing As part of that process, China's comments the bank made to the governing Politburo last month REUTERS dn newspaper. eased the nation's monetary policy  Hongkong, January 3 The remarks by the People's stance forthe first time in some 14 steut Bank of China align with policy- China's yuan hovered near a makers' commitment made last "prudent," a stance it adopted in  14-monthlow against theUS dollar year towards creating a more mar- 2010. on Friday heading for a fourth ket-driven interest rate curve.Ana- During a high-level economic straight week of losses, as falling lysts anticipate it will ma ke further agenda-setting meetingin Decen- yields and domestic rate cut expec-  PBOC said it would prioritise "the role of changes this year to ensure credit ber, China's top Ieaders vowed to  tations continued to weigh on the demand is more responsive to interest rate adjustments" cut interest rates "in a timelyman- currency. monetary policy moves. ner and reducethe amountofcap- The spot yuan traded at 7.2995 The Peoc said that it would ital banks must hold in reserve, as to the dollar by 0255 GMT after prioritise *the role of interest rate "The PBOC will pay more atten-.  monetary easing. The economy's partof abroadereffort tospurlend- briefly weakening past the key 7.3 sector, weak consumption, and adjustments" and move away tion to the role of interest rate con-  main rate is its seven-day reverse ing and investment in the ailing per dollar threshold on Thursday, a  falling bond yields drove capital from"quantitative objectives" for  trol,and improve theformation and repo rate, which it last cut from  economy. Ievel not seen since November flows out of the yuan to higher- Ioan growth,the FT reported, asit transmission of market-orientated 1.7% to1.5% in Iate September. The policy announcements 2023.It hit the key threshold again  yieldingdollars. embarks on a programme of interest rates, the bank said. The central bank's comments  come as China braces for more trade  in morning trade. Worriesabout the Chinese econ- interest rate reform that govern- China's 10-year and 30-year  underline a broader plan to over-  tensions with the United States as That added to the currency's  omy carried into the newyear, with ment advisors have called "an treasury yields both hit record lows haul its policyframework to transi- DonaldTrumpretumstotheWhite 2.8% drop in 2024, its third stocks plunging nearly 3% on arduous task. on Friday on expectations of fresh tion the world's second-Iargest House. straight year of decline,asdomestic Thursday, the first day of tra ding in woes around a moribund property 2025.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 172950.png]
Trump and crypto flip-flops Regulators must hold their ground, resisting the call of SRINATH SRIDHARAN deregulation and ensuring crypto's integration into the Cor porate advisor & independent direc tor on financial system is guided by prudence, not populism cor porate boards | X: @ssmumboi DONaLD trumP IS crypto's messiah- hope that someoneelse will paymore for banks to offer crypto custody services overnight millionaires, preying on the in-chief - conflict of interest aside, he it t han you did? and required stricter accounting mea- "fear of missing out" to Iure in unsus. has some sweat equity in an upcoming Financial regulators across the globe sures for digital assets. Dismantling pecting retail investors. Meanwhile, the cryptoventuretoo. have consistentlyraised alams about its these safeguards may offer a smoother financiaI sector rakes in fees by ped. Hisnewvfound cheerleading for crypto risks. Crypto's decentralised nature and ride in the short term, but at the cost of dling crypto products that are little is as baffling as it is laughable Just a few opacity make it conducive for illicit a catastrophic plunge. more than sophisticated gambling yearsago,he dismissedcryptocurrencies activities like money laundering, terror The stakes couldn't be higher for tokens.If this house of cards collapses, financing, and tax evasion. Yet, Trump gIobal banking regulatory standards. the fallout could dwarf the global finan. This dramatic U-turn feels more like a  has enboldened the indust ry to push for Frameworks like Basel III, designed to ciaI crisis. And, as always, the common social media post hastily deleted after a regulatory free-for-all. ensure theresilience of banks, will be citizen will bearthe brunt. realising its unintended implications. Consider the interconnectedness of stress-tested likenever before if Trump's Regula tors must hold their ground, Much likeachild captivated by anewtoy,  glo balmarkets.Inanera wherea bankfail- crypto agenda takes flight. Crypto's resisting the call of deregulation and will this cypto fascination fadeoncethe urein Silicon Valleysendsripplesthrough extreme price volatility, coupled with its ensuring that crypto's integration into next shiny object appears? European markets,adding unregulated  speculative nature, could wreak havoc the financial system is guided by pru Theironyhereisrich. Bitcoin, bom out cypto asetsto themixislike  on banks' capital buffers dence, not populism. To quote the Finan. of a dream to eliminate middIemen and pouring kerosene on smoul- Crypto's lobbyists, and liquidity ratios. The cial Stability Board:*The absence of reg. even governments' control of finance, dering fire.A single collapse emboldened by  integration of such assets ulation is not neutrality; it isa licencefo. now finds itself embraced by the very could triggera dominoeffect without robust global stan- instability." Luckily, the Reserve Bank ot Trump's support, intermediaries it sought to bypass. Wall across the global financial dards risks creatingregula- India has been holding on to its firm Street, as the representat ive of all words system, undermining trust are pushing for tory arbitrage, where bad views about crypto. But will the political financial,has smartly been not content and stability. regulatory actors flockto jurisdictions dispensation accommodate Trump's withmakingfees off sellingstocks,bonds, Yet, Trump's return to with the weakest rules. crypto tantrums, sayvia non-financial rollbacks insurance, debt arrangements, and  power promises to acceler- Adding to this circus is regu latory frameworks? mutuaI funds.It hasnow turned its sights ate crypto's mainstream- David Sacks Trump'snewly- Thecurrentcrypto narrativeis almost (and political Iobbying) on crypto.In its ing. Theindustry's Iobbyists, embold- anointed"crypto-AI czar. Aman who has Dostoevskyan in its absurdity, a tale of essence,cryptoremains what it has always ened by his support, are pushing for spent his career criticising tech regula-  human greed and moralbankruptcydis  been: ahigh-stakes gamble driven byretail regulatory rollbacks that would m ake it tion, Sacks seemsan odd choice,givenhis guised as innovation. But unlike Dosto. sentiment, devoid of intrinsic value,and easierfor banks tointegrate cryptointo Iack of expertise in either crypto orarti- evsky's characters, who grapple with producingno cash flow. Think ofit this their services. This isn't about innova- ficial int dlligence Then again,Trump has guilt and redemption, the crypto indus. way: when youinvest in a house, you're tionor financial indusion. It'sabout cre never been one to Iet qualificationsget in try and its political champions seem  betting on its ability to provide shelteror ating a fertile ground for profiteering, the wayof appointments. utterly devoid of it.IfTrump'scrypto flip. rental income When you investin stocks, regardless of the col lateral damage. Even after 15 years of existence, flop teaches us anything, it's this: when you're buyingashareinacompany'sprof- Crypto deregulation in theUS threat- cypto still struggles to justify its place  opportunism and populism collide, the its. But when youbuyaypto,what exactly  ens to undo yearsof progress in banking in the world. It has no socal purpose, result is a spectacle - entertaining,yes are you investing in? A future without regulation. Crypto lobbyistsare pushing economic value, and track record of but also dangerously untethered from banks?A utopia where ever yone transacts for the rollback of crucial guidelines, improving lives. The industry's relent- reality.And as historyhas shown, such in blockchain tokens? Or is it simply the.  including rules that made it costly for Iess marketing machine spins tales of spectacles rarely end well.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 173100.png]
O YOUR QUERIES: INCOME TAX Claim HRA, home loan relief if working in different cities theexemption under Section 54 by mentioning the purchase of thenev flat in May. Theexenption under  Section 54 applies irrespectiveof  thefinancial year, as Iongasthe reinvest ment conditionsare met, and the amount is reinvested before the due date of filingincome tax  NEERAJ AGARWALA return for the year of sale. oI stay on rent and have purchased +I purchased a flat where the total a flat in myhome town.Can I claim sale valuementioned in agreement bothH RAandtax deduction on the including the GST is <52 lakh. But interest paid for the home loan? when I amremoving the GSTcom. Saurabh Kumar ponent it isless than <50lakh. Am I Yes, you can claim both House liable to pay the 1%TDS ornot? RentAllowance(HRA) exemption Sundeep Kumar and tax deduction onhomeloan Under Section 194-IA of the interest, provided the flat Income Tax Act,tax youpurchased is not inthe deducted at source (IDS) is city where you are tobedeductedonthe currently residing and higher of: The working, and youare consideration for transfer currently residingin a as mentioned in the rented house in the cityof agreement, or the stamp yourwork. duty value of the pro perty. The tem"consideration for  Mywife sold her flat this year in transfer"refers to theagreed sale March for <1 croreand bought val ue of the property, excluding another flat worth <1.5 crore in taxes like GSr. However, charges May. As the sale and purchase fall such as dlub membership fees, car  in two financialyears,how should parking fees, dectricityorwater She file herreturns? facility charges, maintenance fees, PrakashSingh  advance fees, or other similar The saleand purchaseof charges must be incuded.If the properties falling in two different tot al sale value (considerat ion as per financialyears does not impact the the sale agreement or stampduty availabilityof capital gains val ue, whichever is higher) exempt ion,as Iong as the conditions excluding GSTexceeds <5OIakh,  for caining exemptions are TDSat 1%will apply. satisfied.ForAY2024-25,you  should have filed the return The writerispartner, Nangin & Co. reporting the saleoftheflat and Se nd yourqueries to calculatedthecapitalgains. In the fepersomlfinance@  same form you should have claimed expressindia.com

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 173207.png]
CONSTRUCTION OFTHE BRAHMAPUTRA PROJECTS India raises dam plan with China. o Urges China to Iower reaches of the Yarlung Zangboriver, the Tibetan name ensure interestsof for the Brahmaputra,according to an official statement quoted downstream states by state-run Xinhua news agency on December26. SHUBHAJIT ROY The dam is to be built at a NEW DELHI, JANUARY 3 huge gorge in the Himalayan reaches where the Brahmapu. DAys AfTer beuing cIeared tra river makes a huge U-turn to the construction of the world's flow into Arunachal Pradesh Iargest damon the Brahmapu- andthen to Bangladesh. tra river in Tibet close to the The total investment in the  Indianborder,raising concerns dam could exceed one trillion in Iower riparian states India yuan ($137 billion), which and Bangladesh, Delhi said Fri- would dwarf anyother single day it hasconveyed itsconcerns infrastructure project on the to the Chinese side over the planet including China's own megahydel project. Three Gorges Dam, regarded as  India has urged China to Boats sail through the river Brahmaputra in Guwahati the Iargest in the world, the ensure that the interests of Hong Kong-based South China downstream states of the which is the convention have seen the information withtheneed fortransparency Morning Post reported. Brahmaputra are *not harmed  betweenthetwo countries and released by Xinhua on 25  and consultation with down- Chinese foreign ministry byactivitiesinupstream areas. Iearnt ofit from media reports December 2024 regarding a streamcountries,following the spokesperson Mao Ning had Delhi has aIso Iodged a - the project is to cost an esti- hydropower project on the Iatest report." played down apprehensions protest with Beijing through  mated$137 billion. Yarlung Tsangpo river in the. "The Chinese side has been about the massive project diplomatic channels over Indian officials then Tibet autonomous region of urged to ensure that the inter- Iocated in theecologicallyfrag- China's establishment of two reached out to their Chinese. China. As alowerriparianstate ests of downstream states of  ile Himalayan region, along a new counties in its Hotan Pre- counterparts about sharing with established user rights to the Brahmaputra are not tectonic plate boundary where fecture since parts of jurisdic-  information in advance, and the waters of the river,wehave harmed by activities in earthquakes occur frequently. tion ofthesecountiesfall in the. consulting India and consistently expressed, upstream areas. We will con- Mao said China had carriedout Union Territory of Ladakh, in Bangladesh, the downstream through expert-Ievel as well as tinue to monitorand take nec-  in-depth studies for decades theAksai Chin area. countries. diplomatic channels,our views essary measures to protect our andtook safeguard measures. Sources said that India was On Friday, responding to and concerns to the Chinese interests, he said. "The project will not nega- not informed by the Chinese questions, Randhir Jaiswal, side over mega projects on The Chinese government tively affect thelowerreaches," side about the construction of  spokesperson for the ministry rivers in their territory. These  approved the construction of a she said, referring to concerns the Brahmaputra dam project, of external affairs, said, *We have been reiterated, along hydropower project in the  in India and Bangladesh.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 173239.png]
PM targets Kejriwal: I built homes, not Sheesh Mahal Devansh mIttal & NIrBhAy THAKUR New Delhi, January 3 OpeNingthe BIP'Scampaign in Delhi for theAssembly elec- tions likely next month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday targetedArvind Kejriwal, chief of the ruling AAP, saying he could have built a *Sheesh Mahal"forhimself but choseto givepeople,especiallythe poor, a homeof theirown. Sheesh MahaI is the BJP's description ofKejriwal'sofficial residence when he was chief Pm Modi during a visit to the newly constructed flats forthe minister. dwellers of Jhuggi Jhopri clustersin New Delhi on Friday PTI Speaking in Ashok Vihar, where he inaugurated infra- travel ependiture exceeds upar se seena zori (These structure projects that will cost 8,400 crore, whohimselfwears staunchly corrupt people.. an estimated 4,500 crore, he suits worthover<10lakh,should They steal and then defend accused the AAP of being nottal k about Sheesh Mahal." themselves brazenly)... Dilli ke involvedinscamsacross sectors, In his speech, Modi sid the Iog keh rahe hain, aapda ki from education to health. AAP, which *used Anna Hazare nahin sahenge, badal ke Responding to the PM's as its face" to come to power, rahenge (The people of Delhi remarks, Kejrial struck back: had become an "aapda" (disas. are saying theywill not tolerate "Someonewhohinselflivesina ter) for the peopleof Ddhi."Yeh this disaster,and will usher in 2,700-crore house, whose kat tar beimann Iog... Ek to chori change), he said..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-04 173315.png]
US H-1B visa debate intensifies ahead of Trump's inauguration Laut K JHa Washingt on, January 3 WHo SAId WhAt THREE WEEKS AHEAD of Don musk. Trump'sinuguration on knu. U$ pres:dent cect CO Lead doGe  ary 20,the debate on forelgn I've always liked the The reason I'm In gukst workers risas for highly kllled professtonak, the H-1B. viss We need com. America along with Aomgam hre for. has Intend fied which has titer- petent pcopl com- Canmeand cther people who built dm-bom and fint a ly cc ated divisions in both ing into our country,  Spacex, Tesla, and Ceneraton engd the Danoc  k anil the Repub- we need a lot of peo- thesnottohhre hundred other firms Iican partics. Induns are the main benef. ple coming the best and that made Amerians lsn't carics of the HI B risas, which  in. We're (thebrightat) US strong is beauseatan bring In the best of the talent  going to because of thnate and brains from acoss the have jobs Fepbice H-1B. Take workl H ghly sk ked professlon-  like we Coodpy a big step. als from India walk away with the overwhelming number of  have never Mng Amen an back. I wil! partoflt! H-1 B riuas - whic hls Congre- Fobs go to war comxsdown  had before  sional mandated 650,000evay on this totultur year and another 20,000 fcr those who received higher edu. Issuc Cat ion fram the us. Presldent elect Donald Trump who wi be swom In as H-1B benefits both India, US after Trump, Musk backing thc 47th Fresidot ofthc US at the US Capl tol, has come out in support of thc H- 1, so has t wo THE mOVEmENT OF sk kd Late last month, Trump fessionals is an important nomic ties which are to our of h!s cbose mnflants, Tesla profesbnaks Is an Inport ant sald he fuy backed the H18 component," Indla's forelgn mutual beneft lnda rechved owne Ekn Aluskandentrepre- partofinda-US tirsanl bene. progy amme for foreign work- ministry spoke spersan, about 75% of the 265,777 neurV1vck Ramaswamy,both cf fts both countric, New Deh ers opposed by some of his Randhir Jalswal, said when H-1B visas tsued bythe US tn whom have been tasked to head said on Fridry amid a drbale supportersafter Musk,the bd- askedabout the H-1Brisadis- the Hiscal yearenda! Septem- the newty created Depart mot ovo H-IBvisasonwtid Pres. Bonalr CEO of Tesla and cussions In the US. br2023. of Covernment Cfficdency kdent ckct DonaklTnunpand SpacrX,vown!togp to*war*to "India-US economic ties The country Is keen to (DOGE).*I've always liked the hs backer Elon Musk com. defendit In dia said such visas benefit a lot from the techni- strangthen tes under Trump. Ykas, I hwe always been In mented recently. ndia, known provded mut ul benetits. cal expertke provided by Jaswalsd noting that lndl's favourof thevisas That'swhywe for it s massive podt of IT pro- t ary uund no. skited professionals with forcign minister and forcign havethen, Trunp toll the Neu festonals, miny of wham strong and gowng eco- Jan 3uitan aps ynoq weuetary recenty vkited the York Aos cver the wec kend. work aoss the world. nomic and technolgial streneths and compctitive US and held meetings with *1've always felt we have to arounts for the bulk of suth vahue. We bok forwad to fur. Trump's transion tean. have the most competant pco- risas issucd by thc US. anbit, mob lityof skied pro- tha decpening India US cw- -reuters ple tn our county, We need then. We need smart peopke cominginto Us. we're going to apponted Sriram Krishnan as because of the scarcit yof highly Our workforce. The H-1 B pro. a portlon of the MAGA crowd have jobs like we've never had His Senicr Folicy Adviscr for AL sk ied Amcrican engincers and gramme attracts the brst and started attacking Krishnan on before, Trump told reporters at Such a backlash InitlaEy brightest talent from around his appontment which soon a NwYer's Eve prtytosel by came from the supporters of The naln funa bn of the lop sy pa pu ppomy? expanled to the debate on himat Mar a Lago. Both Musk Dupo pre sunie rmd ean g I H a dv antage as we also inve st in. HIB visas. and Ramas wany huve argued eathg away the Jobs of guest worle nkat ves ks not to Americn workers he told ON *The reason top tech Tems that H-I Bvisas are essenaal to Americars. Bah Musx and hire'the best and the brightest. as hc supported Musx and often hirc forign bom and at tract the best of the talent, as Ranys wamy Im med La tely butrathertoreplace good-pry. Ranuaswany in the debate. first-gaerathonenglneer over the US fa sshort in many of the wdighed in and supported the  ing Amcritan jobs with low. "The rcason I'm inAmerica hative'Amcricansisn't because spedalised felds. H-1Bvlsas, OnThursday, tnflu. wage Indentured serants from abng with so many critical cf an Innate Amerian lQ They have bren joined by ential Democratic Senatar abroad. The chxapet the Ixxx1r peopk who bui t SpacrX, Tesla. deficit.A key part of it comes Indian Anerican Democratic Bernie Sanders asserted that they hlre, the more money the and hundreds ofother compa- down tocukure. lawmakers induding Ro the two clase confidants of bi xxares mak*Sanckrs said. nies that made America strong Tough questians demand Kha nna, Raja Krishnamoorth! Trump are wrone. HIs own party colleague Is because of H1s. Take a blg tough answers and If we're and Shri Thandar who have *Musk .anda numhrofcther Cagrssman Raja Knsh. srptackl wilgotowaonths rally srious about fixing come out in support of H-1B bicionaic teh irm ownanshae namoorthi disagreed on Mon. Issuc the ikesof which youcan- the problem. we have to vh as, af ter a sudden bact!ash argued that thls ledas pro- day The n unber one competl. not posubly comprehend! Confront the TRuTH argued against it as soon as Trump gramme is vital to cur econxmy tive advantage Amcrica has is Musk had said in a post on Xas Ramaswamy. PT1

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 092824.png]
Not top, the 2025 auto sector race hot at middle level VIKRAM CHAUDHARY ing to Siam data. This growth  offerings like the Urban Cruiser NECK AND NECK New Delhi, Janvary 4 (Unit sales)  2023  2024 enabled Toyota to outpace Kia,  Taisor and Camry Hybrid,alongside Last year,  M&M caught up 350,838 whose sales stagnated at 255,038  limited editions of its popularmod- THE PASSENGER VEHICLE market is units, aImost similar to its 2023 Toyota with rival Tata eIs such as the Innova Hycross and  gearing up for a defining year in 5,62,468  performance of 255,000 units. Fortuner Leader Edition. edged past! 2025, wit htwo intense battles shap- Motors for 3rd spct Toyota'ssuccess storywas fuelled In contrast,Kia's newofferings in diato ing the sector's Iandscape. One will by newproduct Iaunches and itscol-  2024 Ieaned toward niche segments, ecome  see Toyota and Kia Iocking horns for Laborat ion wit h Maruti Suzuki,which including the ultra-premium EV9 the fifth spot among camakers, fifth-l 433172  supplies fourmodelstoToyotaunder (priced at 1.3 crore)and the Carni- while the otherwillinvolve Mahindra carmal a cross-badging agreement These valLimousine(<64 lakh) While these 5,28,460  and Tata Motorsin ano-holds-barred So urce: Sam, carmaker. Toyota rebadged models-Glanza, Urban  products bolstered its brand image, race for the third position.These rival- Cruiser Hyryder, Rumion,and Urban theirlimited appeal didn't translate ries are set to build on the upheavals timerival Tata Motors. fifth-Iargest carmaker position, a sales surged to 299,989 units in Cruiser Taisor-constituted nearly into significant sales volume. of 2024, when Toyota overtook Kia, Last year, Toyota Kirloskar Motor feat driven by robust growth and 2024, a~36% jump over the 50% of Toyota's sales. Toyota also  and Mahinda caught upwith long-  edged past Kia India to claim the strategic collaborations. Toyota's 220,725 unitssoldin 2023,accord- expanded its appeal with innovative Continued on Page2

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 092851.png]
TWO-YEAR COMPLIANCE TIME FOR NEW LAW HDFC Bank Sectoral needs to drive deposits up 15.8% in Q3 data localisation: Govt  SAchin KUMAR Mumbai, Janvary 4 being put in place to safeguard crit- PM Narendra Modi & FM Nirmala Sitharaman at Grameen Bharat Mahotsav HDFC BANK pOSTED higher O Restrictions SCNNASHAWA  ical personal data while avoiding  deposit growth than advances in ELECTRONCS&TMINSER PM: Need 5-6 more disruption toindustries. the third quarter, as per provi- to be applied only. Ruesdesgnedtobaance A government-appointed com- sional business updates. Deposits where needed mittee will act as a central body to at the country's Iargest private regulaulonand cooperatives like Amul evaluate anylocalisationneedsraised Iender surged 15.8% to 25.63 innovation while by sectoral ministries. This commit- Iakh crore as of December 31, JATIN GROVER safeguarding tee will consult indust rystakehoIders 2024, from <22.14 Iakh crore a  New Delhi, Janvary 4  before making any recommenda- FE BUREAU Modi emphasised that the govern- year ago,registering a growth of tions.*The intent is not to disrupt New Delhi, January 4 ment is moving forward with the 2.5% at over<25 lakh crore as of The GOvernment's AppROACH coss-border data flows but to  mantra of national development September 30, 2024. to data Iocali sationwill be guided minister Ashwini  address specific sectoral require- PM NARENDRA MODI on Saturday through rural development. Gross advances of the bank by sectoral requirements, Vaishnaw told FE  ments wherelocalisation isnecesary said there is a need to set up five-six Modi aIso stressed upon the rose 3%to<25.42 lakh crore asof ensuring restrictions Saturday. for citizen safety, Vaishnaw said..  mo re cooperatives likeAmul to ensure  need to create more farmer pro- December 31, 2024, from 24.69 Uc are imposed only Vaishnaw said better pricesfor farmers'produce. ducerorganisations (FPOs). Iakh crore a year ago. where necessary, balanced Continued on Page 2 Inaugurating the Grameen electronics and IT  framework is Compliance challenges: P3  Bharat Mahotsav 2025 in Delhi, Continued on Page2 Continued on Page2

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 092918.png]
O DENSE FOG HITS OPERATIONS 19 flights diverted, more than 400 delayed at Delhi airport PRESS TRUST OF INDIA 10.58 am, IndiGo said densefog New Delhi, January4 continued to affect visibility in Delhi, Chandigarh, Amnitsar, DelhI AIrpoRt on Saturday Srinagar, Guwahati, and Patna, saw 19 flight diversions, many even during daytime. cancellations and over 400 "We assure you that our flight delays as low visibility teams are working diligent ly to conditions due to dense fog assist all impacted customers impacted operations forthe sec- ensuring your joumey resumes ond straight day. as soon as the weather An official said 19 flights  improves"itsaid inanotherpost were diverted at the airport at 11 am. IGIA handIes around between12.15amand1.30 am 1,300 flight movements daily. due to reduced visibility. Of  The Northern Railway also said them, 13 were domestic, four atotalof S9trainswererunning intemational and two non- Iate byup to six hours and 22 by scheduled flights. aroundeight hours. More than 45 flights were Ina related devdopment, air cancelled due to bad weather qualityin the national capital conditions at Delhi as well as at Flights are seen grounded at the Jayprakash Narayan was in the very poor category, IntemationalAirport amid delay due to fog, in Patna, the destination airports, the with an Air Quality Index (AQI) official said As perinfomation on Saturday PT reading of 380 at 9 am, accord- available on flighttrackingweb- concerned for updated flight hiAirport are currently on hold ing to Central Poll ution Control site Flightradar24.com, over information. "Any inconve- due toreducedvisbility," IndiGo Board data. 400 flights were delayed at the nience caused is deeplyregret- said in a post on X at1.05 amon An AQI between zero and 50 Delhi airport. ted"the Delhi InternationalAir- Saturday.Air India said in an is considered good, 51 and 100 The country's Iargest airline port Ltd(DIAL) said in a post on update on X at 1.16 am that 'sat isfactory,101and 200'mod- IndiGo had temporarily put Xat 6.56 am. poor visibility due to dense erate, 201 and 300'poor, 301 arrivaIs and depart ures on hold CAr Ill facilityall ows ai rcraft fog was impacting flight opera- and 400'verypoor, and 401 and at theairport earlyin the morn- to operat ein Iow-visibilit y con- tions in Delhi and parts of 500'severe.Theminimumtem- ing"While landing and takeoffs ditions. Indira Gandhi Intema- northern India. perature settled at 7.8 degrees cont inue at DelhiAirport,flights tional Airport (IGIA) in the A thick blanket of fog had Celsius, anotch above nomal. that are not CAT III compliant national capital is operated by enveloped Delhi on Friday as The Metoffice has predicted mayget affected.Passengers are DIAl *#6ETravelAdvisory: well, delaying more than 400  dense to very dense fog during requested to contact the airline Departuresand arrivalsat#Dd- flights. In an update on X at the day.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093026.png]
O'shEesh mahaL' rOW CAG report flags 'doubtful' consultants, estimate revision October 2021.The audt report Cost up thrice to hasse par atc scctions onthe addj- t33 crore, reveals dont and alte odars mn'e forthe cnstruxtinn of thr staffblodk and audit trail cmp office at tached to the Chief Mirester's residence and what it calls the *infated* Prelimnary RiTU SARIN & JATiN AnAND Estirmates of t3t6 crore for this New Dethi, January 4 staff block and camp office, The Judit Is aho sad tofag that an ALl These ContrIBuT eD to the amount of <137 aure w2 spont e scaletan of cost of re rwa tion of on Axlng'placng of sntary the prc misc of 6 FlagStaf Road itans fumiture and gym cquip. offce andres kte ne of then Chief Inent at the reshdence ani these Minster Arvind Krfriwal From 4. items were includrd as *exta preminary est kmates of <7.91 Items*n... addton'aleratonof Gore,work vqs awadkd at t$.62 St aff Bkck/Carmp Officc, 6 Staff crore h 2020 and when k wQs The CM's rt sidence at s, Rag Sta Road, New De1hi Flag Roat, Chr Lines.-* competed by the Fubl ic Works Thx CaC is also said to havc Department (FvD) h 2022, the complakned about what lt cated txal cos was t 3366 core. Where The money Was SPent the Det hl Govemnent's reluc- Juowue aq m auey aur xx. tance to submit thxe requsite the key findings of a report by The cost (including installation charges) of some paperwork Ith s mentionrdthat thn Comptrolcr and Audnor of the most expensive items at theresidence in the absence ofsupplyvouchars General Garish Cundra Murmu. nEM Slong withdalans thr genuine- The Indian Exprrss has Iamed rc s"of material surplicd by the thx Murmu signed off on thk. TVconsole 20,34,200 cntr actors anl the Qte al which report juxt a weeck bfore hc . Min'bar unit. 24,80,052 thcsey  purdardcou d nat bc. demi tted office on November 20, L-shaped sofa <6,40,604 Yertflet. Last month, the De! 2023.Aagging hs canpignfri- [ Treadmdl & gym equlpment Vigila nce Dirrctora te, ta*ed wth -p koag auqwoodn xp xy Arp $18,52,155 Investgadng alle ged krregulad. tions, PMI Nasendra Mlodt Ktchen equipment <39,08,846 tin dlatd to the re noation af 6 sxrmed Keirwal syaghewuld Silk carpet. $16,27,690 Fag Staff Road, soon afta the have buita*SheoshMahal'- the Raunddnngtable 14,80,052 matter fint swrfaced In May BJP's name for tus house as a Jqound n amd y poxe ctot $y'rmbol cf what it cxs AAP's cor. .. Upholstered bed (3,99,499 and sulamit a repart on who or Rupton - but hadensured that 4 Faux leath er cladding 5,45,878 wtuch oryankation protded the crore ct tzens had got houses bn Wtsh tens' bund a the prop. Burma te ak and vene e? $2,39,223 thc last 10 years. Wecks after hc crty,Whic thx Cantral Burau of w released on ball in the lkquor  making omamertal mirror Yo++ Co mot te ey heo ysa Inve aton reg ser ed aprelm. ase in Septe mber - in whid hc inary cnguiry in tw matter in higher sped fcztlons. t33.66 aore of toul expenses September 202 3,the Latest probe Durctorat on Aardh 21,2Q24 - Unxt d ining issues elated in t18.38 aore has been spent on ws ordeted by De IhilGVK Sx- Kejrtwal hadvacaedthepremises what theauditor ha desaribed  enaon Decemb 6, 2024 after a in Octoxr 2024 after stepping phject,the CAG rport is camt to Hoy oynds ny ains po suo. compaint fikd by Leadrr of have noted that tendas were ant kt ic, antique xd omumental Oppositon1n the DeIdAssambly 17.The AAP hasconsistenty said inrited in Octoter 2020 from frve items,ntxh we re ale xctedby and EJP MtA Vjendet Gupt a in  contrators of whom onty thuee the IWD a*etn tems* The Navanber last year. personal" aset and, as the CMy subnited thdr bids and work CAG's repurtk uldtohre mner. LnAugut,2024,de Cantral Pub- rcidr nce, wi bc alotted to oth- was aw arded to the lowe x bidder ures which have hsts of 193 civ! Iic Works Departncnt (CPWD) ers bn the fu we The CAG report from anong a'defic kent* lst af "exta*conpne rts as we as *0 Suspended ihree enginerrs for Sar uo uonp e Jary o p!es s!  probabkes drawn upbyPWD. "cta" ckctrical conponents. thar alcged rok in icgalidio uLrnies by PWD relted tothe E xplanng ths de CAG It k The report Is learnt to show related to works at the reshdence *I mode Iang of cisting axom- Icant, hxs mentioncd that the how, from Scptcmber 2020 to whuicd the AAP ca'kd a*witch- modation on the ground fourand remaning four mntractors had June 2022.five revsed estinates hunt' when asked about the the construction of an*sdti tiora! done work tinkrd tocla srocns in? wee provxrd t he fAh showing. audit and its findings, an AAP Ichools, development of park at there was an Increase n smpe of Spokesperson called ikt's der. be plaard bxfore the DehiAxam. Atal Sanadhi and tuis showed work such as artistic and orma. sionary tactic by the BpP days by, s leamt to hx'e highig hed. that they din't have theerper. mental work 5.07 c before the elections when they "doubtful" sekect on of con sul. ence of ding slm&x woxk In VP deigner accesories and fatings aneuru xh ioq anry tants, frcqucnt reisicn of esti. are asaswas clained by FWD (43.27 Iakh) and martle work He reitcratcd Kejriwars mate. snd going beond A ly cndubn of the CAGs (( 1.97a) oer andabove the third approrals to nclude xems of findingsit s kamt, is that of the  prorisional estinate given in -go syhnoqe sexy  ppo spunos d!CMrehence,whiktwa buit bythe PWD.from a partywhose Ieader ves n at2,700  house, For fourth year in a row, PSU travdsinan ?s,400cr airaaft. weastolathsits*

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093104.png]
DPIIT ties up NEW DATA PROTECTION RULES Parental consent seen as with Stride Venturesto a challenge for Big Tech help startups FE BUREAU FE BUREAU NEW NORMS, NEW COMPLICATIONS New Delhi, Janvary 4 New Delhi, Janvary 4 The department for pro- THE RULES TOimplement the  Social media have to  mot ion of industryand internal Digital Personal Data Protec- come up with a trade(DPIIT) haspartneredwith tion (DPDP) Act may see com-  mechanism to manage venture debt firm Stride Ven- pliance challenges for social parental consent for tures to provide financial sup-  media intermediaries as they children aged below 18 port and strategic guidanceto will have to come up with a  Requirement of startupsin thecountry. mechanism to manage Stride Ventures will focus parental consent before verification ofidentities  on identifying startups with onboardingchildren bdow 18 of parents will create an  New legal mandate will high growth potential and years of ageon the platform. additional compliance require a significant offering them funding, mar- Experts sytherequirement burden, say experts overhaul of existing data ket access and policy support. of verifica tion of identities of handling practices This initiative aims to assist parents as well will create an  Indian startups in expanding additional compliance burden Imestments in tech,  Experts also flagged  globallywhile also supporting  on such companies as they will concerns over data international startups enter- haveto comeup with asysten. and collaborationwith Iocalisation and oversight on ing the Indian market, a state. "The rules on how to obtain Venficatlon entities cross-border data sharing ment by the ministry of com- verifiable parental consent are merce and ind ustry said. bound to create significant "This endeavour aligns with compliance challenges.This is the government. While compliance will be a the Govemmentof India's Make because data fiduciaries will Supratim Chakraborty,part- constraint, Iegal experts say the in India and Make for the Word haveto maintain differentcon. ner, Khaitan & Co, said, "Ensur- rules also don't give any darity strategies targctingsectorssuch sent processes for adults, ingthat theconsentingindivid- on how children will be identi- as manufacturing, consumer, minors and persons with dis- ual is alegallyidentifiable adult  fied for the purpose of seeking B2B and cleantech, said Sanjiv, abilities who have lawful adds a critical layer of account- verifiable parental consent joint secretary, Startup India.As guardians, said Shahana Chat- ability, reflecting the govern- fromtheir parents/guardians. part of this partnership, Stride terji, partnerat ShardulAmarc- ment's commitment to safe. "It seems the approach Ventures will curate specialised hand Mangaldas & Co. guard the vulnerable groups." might rely on self-declaration  programsandcollaborateonini-  The draft rules released by According to Chakraborty, byusers allowing themtoindi- tiatives like the Bharat Grand the government on Friday for for businesses, the shift will catewhetherthey areminorsor Challenge to foster entrepre- public consult ation statethat"a demand investmentsin tech- adults.This could potentially neurship,innovationand invest- data fiduciary shall adopt nology, operational diligence, Iead to broader processing of ment, Sanjiv said. appropriate technical and and collaboration with trusted parental or guardian data, "This partnership, coupled organisational measures to verification entities like Dig. whichraises interesting consid- with our billion-dollar com- ensure that verifiable consent iLocker service providers. erations regarding thescaleand mitmenttonurt uringstartups, of the parent is obtained before Experts said the new Iegal scope of such data collection, reaffirms our resolve to the processing of any personal mandate will require a signifi- said Shreya Suri, partner at strengthen startup ecosystem. data of achild. cant overhaul of existing data IndusLaw. We aim to unlock immense In addition, parents'iden- handling practices, induding "Thereremainssome ambi- potential and delivertransfor- tity and age will aIso have to be theintegration of identity veri- guity around how self-declara- mative impact on a global validated and  verified fication systems to authenti-  tion would apply in cases where scale," said Ishpreet Singh through a voluntarily-pro- cate the identityand age of par- individuals may not be able to Gandhi, founder and manag. vid edidentity proof issued by ents or lawful guardians disclose their status indepen- ing partner of Stride Ven tures. an entity entrusted by law or providing consent. dently, she said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093319.png]
Family settlement: Kirloskar firms challenge Sebi Press trust Of inDiA New Delhi, Janvary 4 KIrLOsKar Broj FoUr kirLosKar compA-  NIES on Saturday said they have filed an appeal before the Secu- rities Appellate TribunaI (SAT) challenging the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) Ietter asking them to disdose the deed of family settlement that was signed by members of Kirloskar siblings have the Kirloskar familyon Sept en- been in a feud since ber11,2009. 2016 over the DFS for In ajoint statement, the Kir- the assets of the more Ioskar companies-Kirloskar than 130-year-old Ferrous Industries (KFIL), Kir- Kirloskar group Ioskar Industries (KIL), Kirloskar Pneumatic, Kirloskar Oi Engines-said they have filed the appealbefore SAT challeng- ing the Sebi letter dated Decen-  manand managingdirectorJon ber 30, 2024, wherein the mar- one side andAtul and Rahul on ket regulator advised them to the other, have been in a feud disdlosethe Deed of FamilySet-  since 2016 over the DFS for the tlement (DFS). assets of the more than 130- On December 31, 2024, year-old Kidoskar group. these companies stated that Rahul Kirloskar isthe execu- they were preparing to Iegally tive chaimanof KirloskarPneu- challenge the letter by Sebi.  matic and Atul Kirloskaris the Themarketswatchdogin its executive chaiman of Kiroskar Ietterstated that "since the DFS Oil Engines (KOEL). Sanjay Kir- is subsisting in nature, indi-  Ioskarhad filed a complaint for rectly creates a restriction on non-disclosure ofthe DFS. the  listed entities KOEL on September 11, managed/promoted by the 2023, responded to the parties to such DFS, warrants National Stock Exchange(NS E) disclosure, regardless of that it was "nothing but one whether such listed entity is a more of his repeated attempts party to the agreement or not" to try and somehow cause under relevant provisions and KOEL to be bound by the DFS advised the company to dis- for his own ulterior motives close DFS in terms of LODR and in furtherance of his per- Regulations.e sonal vendetta with the other Kirloskar siblings,with San- family mem bers, which is now  jay (Kirloskar Brothers chair- public record"

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093350.png]
GOVT PLANS TO BEARTRANSPORTATION, STORAGE COST Address price gap.  between farmers,  Chouhan  consumers: SAnDip DAs FOR FARMERS' WELFARE New Delhi, Janvary 4  Findings of a study AGRICULTUrE MInISTER by RBI had stated that Shivrau singh chouhan. SHIVRAJ Singh Chouhan on UNION AGRICULTURE MINISTER Saturday urged states to pro- wholesalers, retailers vide suggestions for bridging are pocketing almost Farmer gets a lower price the gap between consumer 2/3 of what for his produce at the prices and the remuneration consumers pay to buy received by farmers for agri- vegetables and fruits place of production, cultural commodities. from the market but when it "The farmer gets a Iower reaches cities, it price for his produce--indud-  According to the govt, becomes costly ing vegetables, fruits and under Pm-Kisan scheme other crops-at the place of  more than 3.46L cr for consumers... Allied sectoris production, but when it expected All of us should has been transferred to reaches big cities, it becomes togrowat the bank accounts of  ponder this very costly for consumers. 3.5-4%inFY25, 110 million farmers in 18 How canwereduce this differ- Says Chouhan ence? All of us should ponder installments this, Chouhan said while addressing a pre-budget wholesalers and retailers are. expected growthof theagricul- ments.He alsonotedthat pro-  meeting with state agriculture pocketing nearly two-thirds  posals worth 51,700 crore ministers. of the amount that the con- 3.5-4%in 2024-25, a signifi- under the Agri Infrastructure Tolowerthecost of agricul-  sumers pay for vegetables and cant increase from 1.4% in Fund(AIF) havebeenapproved tural production, Chouhan fruits in the market. FY24. for over 85,000 projects since announced that the govern- The minister also invited  Regarding the progress of its launch four years ago. ment will bear the cost of states to suggest improve- flagship programs, he stated On the six-point strategy to transportation and storagefor ments or modifications to that under the Pradhan boost the agriculture sector, crops like onions, tomatoes ongoing central schemes in Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Chouhan said that steps are and potatoes when procured the farm sector. He alsoinvited (PM-Kisan) scheme, launched being taken to boost produc-  directly from farmers byagen- state ministers to meet him. in February 2019, more than tivity through releasing cies such as Nafed. in Delhi to discuss state-spe- 3.46 Iakh crore has been improved seeds varieties from *If we want to increase cific issues. transferred to the bank Indian Councl forAgricult ural. farmers'income, we need to "1f there is any suggestion accounts of 110 million farm- Research besides initiative Iook at ways to red uce the cost or amendment required in ers in 18 installments. measures like promotion of. of cultivation, he said. relationto thebudget orongo- Under this direct cash micro irrigation, farm mecha- A recent study by the ing schemes, provide neces- transfer scheme, farmers  nisation, use of technology and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Sary feedback, Chouhan said. receive 6,000 annually in introduction of new methods and ICRIER had revealed that Chouhan highlighted the three four-monthly install- ofagriculture.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093608.png]
business is business. Early in 2024, the Hurun list of Bijness is 0 0 0 world's billionaires came out, in which bijness of the 3,279 billionaires, 271 were Indian. Mumbai became Asia's billion- aire capital, and Mukesh Ambani, the wealthiest Gujarati, became the richest Asian, at $115 billion. Gautam Adani, also Gujarati, at $86 billion, was the fif- lifelong customers. Women from the teenth richest in the world. Five of the Entrepreneurial &warais neighbourhood bring homemade thep- richest ten Indians in the Fores list of Ias sealed in plastic bags, and the shop. 2023 are Gujarati, and of the top 100, spirit is inherent in keeper sells them to unmarried men and nineteen more Gujaratis add to a Gujaratis, and in workingin other shops and desperatefor total of twenty-four in the top 100. home-cooked meals. He'd pocket a third Other similar lists vary because family. these excerpts from of the price as his profit. He will stock owned businesses have fiendishly com- Salil Tripathi's new Indian newspapers and magazines,rent plicated cross-holding patterns. But the out cassettes and videotapes of Bolly- Iarger point remains valid-Gujaratis book, he writes how wood films, and Iook the ot her waywhen form a disproportionately large part of teenagers are sheepishly buying ciga- India's wealthiest. paiso bole chhe rettes or condoms.He wouldn't squeal, *** because if he did,they'd stop coming. for the community The Gujaratis: We wanttobuildourfortune,and not He knows that he can't always get help others building their fortunes, a A Portrait of a what hewants,and so henegotiates. Giv. point many Gujaratis in business told only a small part of our identity. Most Community ing does not mean giving in or surren- me. You have to seize the opportunity Gujaratisare shopkeepers,not entrepre- dering,forthereare no zero-sun games. and take your destiny inyour hands,Rus. Salil Trpathi neurs or industrialists.And weare trans- Businessis a sport,not war. Compromise sell Mehta, managing director of Rosy Aleph Book Company actional,in business and in society! isimportant.Edward Simpson, an expert Blue,the leading diamond exporter,said The shopkeeper, Meghani said, caI- Pp 744, 21,499 on Gujarati society and culture at SOAS over a delicious vegetarian thali at his culates. He is close tothe market, and he University in London, told me that one officein thediamond boursein Mumbai.  understands the customer. Sizingup the trait commonacross Gujarati communi- 'You identify the opportunity that others customer is the key. If the customer milk, frozen fish, and toilet paper rolls. ties is the ability to compromise. We haven't seen, he added. Sometimes it is seems slippery, the shopkeeper will  The shop becom es theone-stopalmanac stoop to conquer. hiding in plain sight. Renowned author insist on cash andnot offer credit There  of the area, and the shopkeeper is the The vegetarian teetotaller Gujarati Harish Damodaran told a journalist in is the famous song of the renowned search engine for the community from shopkeeper has no qualms about selling 2014 how GautamAdani went into ports  musician Avinash Vyas, Charar charar the time before Google. He puts up cus- canned meat and aIcoholin his shop; the when nobody was looking at the sector, maru chakdol chale (My ferris wheel toners' notices: Iand Iords who want to fundamentalist Hindu Gujarati trader since everyone believed that ports have turns)' which has this important verse, rent out a room, new arrivaIswhowant to may anonymously curse Muslims on strategic significance and sothegovern- aaje rokda ne udhnar kale (cash today, buy aused washingmachine, car owners social niedia, but he will have a cord ial ment simply won't pemit private sector credit tomorrow). who want to sell their car, even parents business relationship with a Sunni Arab tohavea majority stake. In the remotest corners of the world,. seeking a spouse for their daughter. He  businessman in Dubai, who'd have no idea you'd find a Gujarati trader's shop,sell- may not charge for that service; he will. what theGujarati has been saying online. Ercerpted with pe rmission from ingturmeric and cumin,chocolates and  makeupforit by making those peoplehis We compartm entalise Life is life, but Aleph Book Company

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 093636.png]
The original. environmentalists Ramachandra Guha. WAHO ties his protagonists RATURE by a common thread of human-nature relationships and their writings AMITABHA BHATTACHARYA Speaking with. HILe READINg THISbook, I Nature: The Origins was frequentlyinterrupted of Indian by old memories and asso-. Environmentalism ciations. I remember hav. ing written in Bangla for myschool maga- Ramachandra Guha  zine how nature was integral to Tagore's HarperCollins  poetry, how during my district training at Pp 440, 2799 Srikakulam I had spent amonthina tribal KM Munshi started Vana Mahotsava in 195o, when he was Union minister, to area named Elwinpeta, and how I had  increase forest cover. Sincethen, it has become an annual affair EX PRE SS ARCHmEsO  grown up reading columnsof M Krishnan in The Statesman. I knew about Radhak- their contribution to public causes--  conditions influenced generations in the well-known(as formanyot herwriters), and  mal Mukherjee as an important academic whether in shaping modem India or West and is often inked with colonialism. his concerns about cnvironmental fron Lucknow, of Patrick Geddes as the through writingand actingon ecological Colonial rule constituted an ecological destruction were aIso not altogether biographerofhisscientist-friend Jagadish issues-have sometimes been criticised by watershed sinceit brought withit "new unique evenatthat time.But Guhanotices Chandra Bose, about KM Munshi as a casual readersforhaving leftoutpersonal- technologies ofcontrolling,manipulat ing, that Tagore gave this critique of industri- noted author who founded the Bharatiya ities of their choice. Many such critiques reshaping and destroying nature? Guha alism and imperialism a distinctive eco- Vidya Bhavan,and of JC Kumarappa and emanate from aninadequate understand- accepts John McNeill's definition of envi- Iogical twist, and explains, in amplemea- Madeleine/ Mirabehn as Gandhiji's ing ofthehistorical context in whichGuha ronmentalism "as the viey that sure, why*Rabindranath Tagore was an devoted associates.Ihardlyknewanything  posits such men and women.. humankind ought to seek peaceful coex- unacknowledged founder of the modern about the remarkable couple Albert and The titleofthe chapters indicate why istence with, rather than mastery of, Indian environmental movement. To Gabrielle Howard, except byname. Guha selected the individuals and in nature, and argues convincingly that make the dry and barren Iand of Santi-  Rannchandra Guha's genius liesindis. what specific area their contribution "environmentalism asI defineitwasmade niketan dotted with trees and groves, covering thecommonthread that tied the turned out to be pioneering and unique. possible only after the subcon tinent came Tagoreint roduced the Briksharopan (tree- ten characters, with different Ievels of  Keepingthe averagereader's patience in under the control of British imperialists, planting) ceremonyinJuly1928,tobehdd renown, in a manner that is both exhaus-  mind, Guha uses his pen to briefly sketch and perhaps arose because of colonial every year, putting his heart and soul tive and absorbing. Mixing description the defining moments of one's life and exploitation. His identification of the pro- behind it.It transformed everything. with analysis, and covering around a cen- how the causes theyespoused-through tagonist shasto be seen inthis perspective. Much Iater,in independent India, KM tury-from Rabindranath to Krishnan-- words and action -marked the'origins Though each essay is majestic in its Munshi as the minister in charge of Guha unites them in that "they all of Indian environmentalism. sweep, none is bereft of complexity, well forestry, introduced Vana Mahotsava addressed human-nature rdationships, Francis Bacon's powerful idea that researched details and nuances. For (grand fest ivaloftheforest)ona pan-India and they did so in writing".Admittedly, human beingsshould conquernatureand  instance, Tagore's lifelong engagement scale,invoking the imageries from Hindu Guha's books that select individuals and  by dominating it can improve their living with the beauty and variety of natureis religious texts, going to the extent of say-

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094015.png]
Welcome, the Generation Beta WWTlbom from 1922-1927 to Post Hfe, thcirsocialint cractionsand kaming What will the War (192s-194$) Eocmers 1 (1946- will always be tech-hen, Totry, Eet? 1954) to B00mers11 (1955-1964] thc wi automa ticay brconc a part of Gem * new generation, oldest of the geneadon alwrys have 1nd Live, a voikce-powe red Al c hat feature born on Jan 1, differnt sasibitics than the younget. in the Googl cGanini app al lows usc rs to Gen X {1965.1980) Menrials (1931. have converations with theapp.cr Dalsy 1996) and Gcn Z (1997-2012) havc open its eyes to? t he AI'granny, a tdacom giant Or's new arcadysmand opelenced adiffernt weapon tobalt phone scammers. hife andtine. Ganaration Brta wi kyrage tech. But Generar ion Betz Is a population no logy as a tocl for educat lon, cnnec- FE FEAtUreS that will bxe born in an cta of smart t ion, inteaction and enter tainmsnt but tifestyk doics with artifidal intcj- it is also a dhal lange for thcsc kids to con- N Janua ry 1, a new gen- gence in tegrat ed Into almost ex h and scoulyundertnd the potentu! short- cration was bom : call ed Cyuy scgment of life. The Bcta kids wi comings oftedunology. Farantswilihave Generatbn Beta, which te a step above Generation Al ptu, who 1 hwdt hne unking kds'scren timeand will include those bom were unt d now the most globaly con- So this will be the case with the now gon- between the years 2025 redted gerentbond childrenevet. etthon aswed. "6f C pur Asper oxilrx acher, damograph. On thxothe hand, the dgitalwisdom Fach generatlon has had dlfferent an d futurst Mark Mic Crtndle, Gener. coming from Gen Z parents wll snsbiitiks thn thx younger. The ton Fkta by 2035,wi mak up 14*b of always hcp Dcta to navigate and Pew Research Center has been studying the global population, they will be the redei ne prior ities. the milkennid generatixn fa mox than chodren of younga Ga Ys (mil knniat) Lest we forget that dimate change a dccade, measuring pubic aiudes on nd olderGenZs, and marrywil ive tosce and sust ainabi liky are some of the press- key isues and $uyuxu noop the 22nd century. McCr!ndle has co- Ingissues of our time, thls generton diffarences in those attitdes across zithored a bocktided GervationApht willbe borntnto anera towitncssallthis denographic groupe. those born bxetween 2010 and 2024, amid rapid urbanisution As a rouht tHs where he poins cut hw Alpha the tam co existence will hdp them kcad and he coined,Is zd sixut tndentanding and adapt to new duanges maxe easily and cmpowering this grre ntion,t he signef- swiftly. Thcx will alot cpectrdto kad kance of technclogy, the future of work the woybynxt Justdeteoninngcex-cut #ndthcir consumer habitsand thcirrok goals but inpk menting them in a more as Infkencer, in hIs online bbog. concrete and organlsed manne. For McCrindk hasdefined the genoationd inst ancr,cquaity, and eco-con scious* shuft bytheevents, technologles,ant cul- ness wll be pxt cf thdr parendrg,who tur al shifts of theix time Ge nera ton Brta are cithe: Millenndalorok Gen Zx They rcpresantsa pivotaldhapterin curevoly. wil alsowidchyaccepta cccaborativeand Ing workd. Bit who will Generation Beta c ommunity bxed interac tion, and will De and what factors will sape thcir sal- effortlessly adopt innovaton and cre. Us,bdnours, and apirations? ativity for confort This, as a result, will Si nce Cencra tion Ecta will tc bormin aiso help thc mdctemsnc moxesohutions an Al-Integrated en, they wiD Uve In a and face maxe chalenge. data gencrated world -- tc it cducaion, Beta on tix othe hand, wrill bx a gen. workplaces, beal thcare and entertain- enthon bon and growing up wth soda! ment Wth weaabk heath tech, media, so it is likly to shape thcr andvttualeniron- pdart lesright fronsurt. Wew sethe ments in ne xt range of birth datesafterAl phaand amst Bcta to Ceneration Gamma (b. 2040- twry 2054GenerationD lta (h 2055- 2069] aspect of and so or.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094101.png]
Race for humanoids OpenAI is back in the robotics arena, and the world awaits the results FE FEATURES HEAdquartered in SAn Francisco in the United States, aruficial intedi. gence rese arch organisatlon OpenAI has consistently stayed in the news In the past fewyeas. Be kt coming out with the Internet's much-loved ChatCFr in 2022. the wholc investors board vs CLO Sam Alkt man drama In 202 3,ornow,the news that it might be grtting bak Into the huma nold robots space. We say'get. ting back' because for the Iongest time OpenAl did have a dcdicated robotics tean, whlch It had to shut hhst c onp'de sro sanp umop fiklenttraining data",the company's co- founder Wojcicch Zare mba, wto also used to he ad the team, reveaked ina podca st Interview at the time.1n an interesting tum of events, on Decen ber 24 Jast ye ar, The Informa. Hion, a US-based tech/ bus hness pub. licatlon, quoted *two people wlth direct knowkdge"on the stbject say. 1ng that OpenA1 has been expboring bulding a humanoid robot. A humanold robot has physlca! fe atures similar to humars in skck - tal form -- arms, Iegs. head, etc. and is trained to do human-like tasks, ranging from dmple to extrrmdycamplex too. Expeditions, Parkway Venture Capi brginning of 2024, OpenAI alsc tal,ARK Inve st, Intel Caphtal, Nvidia, In the meantime and Align Ventures, inve sted in Fig. <uised in robotio, sugg sing tha! With OpenAI retur ning to the ter. ure Al, a Us-based startup that has it might be looking to rcbuild it. raln,1t might be Icoking at excting been trying to*bring a general pur- OGteant. developments coming up. But the pose humanoid to life". Company wasn't never really too far Pe ter Welinder, VPof prod uct and Endless possibilities from the robotics space. Even after partncrships at OpenAl,had told the Recently. humanoid robots hay Shutting down the robotic division. media, *Weve always planned to  been employedto test Al capabilkles OpenAl docs scem to have been come back to robotics and we see a in workspaces, warehouses, othet 1nvested h the fieht, quke Iterally. in path wlth Figure to explore what physlcl spaces, etc.At the moment. Fcbruary this yeat OpenAl Startup huma noid robots can achicre when the big players in the humanoid Fund along with Microsoft, Eezos powered by highly capable mu!tI- robotlcs feld are Boston Dynamics ow  epou Tesia Optimus, Sanctuary Al. The company also invested in 1X Xiaomi's' CyberOne, and Agility Technologles, "*an Al robotles Robotics, among cthers. company producing humanoids With OpenA! re-entering the capable of hunian-like movements field, the possibibties are endless or and behavious, according to its whatthe future developments culd website, to help the m integrate GPT Hook like. However, it's noteworthy AI models with robotic syste ms.In that The Information's repor! November thls year, OpenA! dldn't conclusively sy whether invested in ancther Al and robot. tobotic is a high priority ma tter fo. 1-centred start-up called Physl- OpenAl or not. callntelligence. Nevert heless, with the wompany? Not just that, reporte dly at the recent launches such as o3 AI mod els, the developers might be on the path to create robots that could per. PLAYERS IN form complicated tasks, res pond to HUMANOID humans, initiate  prob le m sohving,ara! be dephoyed in different industrio,considering thatthe com. ROBOTS pany's Iatest A! models have beer developed with advanced reasoning capabilitles. Golng ahead, these robots (if powered with featurestha) CA accessiblc) could t evolutionisc

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094137.png]
Small language models, an accelerated rivalry A godfather's waming Gemini vs OpenAl  improve the responses provided byitsown us closer to our vision of a universal assis- Geoffrey Hinton, a British-Canadian The rivalry between Google's Gemini and AI model. TechCrunch reported that tant" Google sid.Additionall,it aunched between two bot behemoths, a godfather's. computer scientist who is referred to as Microsoft-backed OpenAI has been esca- Google contractors are given res ponses anewfeature called' Deep Research, which warning, a digital guide for Mahakumbh.... the 'godfather' ofAI, has raised an alam Jating.According toreports,Googleisset to  generated by Gemini and Claude in is capable of using"advanced reasoning  that the technology may lead to human  build business and focus on Gemini AI for.  responsetoa userpromptwhich theyhave and long context capabilities to act as a here's the latest buzz from the world of artificial extinction in the next 30years, witha 10- customersin 2025, amidst rivalry with toratewithin 30 minutes on factors such researchassistant,exploring complex top- 20% chance of that happening. Hinton OpenAI.As reported,its contractors are as truthfulness and verbosity.Meanwhile, ics and compiling reports, availa ble f intelligence ... By Rewati Karan was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics  usingan internal platfom for comparing Goo glerecently unveiled the Genini2.0 Gemin's  advanced subscribers. earlicin 202 4 for his contribu tionstoAI. Gemini's outputs to those of Fash experimental model  in Meanwhile,OpenAI,t oo, has unveiled new The next big thing In an interview to BBC Radio 4's Today other AI modelsand arerely- competition with OpenAI. In its blog, o3 and o3 mini models, which will b2 programme,hewas quoted as saying that ing on Claude, a We all know about Iarge language models we'venever had to deal with thingsmore familyoflargelan- capablemodelyet""Withnew advancesin  models are quite advanced versions and (LLMs) that are faclitatingcomputers to intelligent than ourselves before dis- guage  models multimodality -- like native image and  much better than its predecessors in genernate and process big data, enabling cussing his evolving views on AI's poten- developed  ann oon nnnu pn - innno odnne by several performance benchmarks, as them to respond tonatural language ques- tial risks. He says that the likelihood of AI Anthropic, to enableusto build newAI agentsthat bring. per reports. tions. But now, small language models causing harm has risen in recent times. (SLMs), whichhavethe capabilitytogener- "And how manyexamplesdoyouknow of ate human-like Ianguage and are trnined  amore intdligent thing being controlled Alin Mahakumbh on datasets that are limited, are also by a less intelligentthing? There are very As Al is increasingly becoming pervasive, becomingall therage.It isunderstood that few examples.There's amother and baby. why shouId Mahakumbh beIeftbchind? In they canbet rained and used easily, besides Evolution put a lot of workinto allowing  line with the advancing tech, the Uttar being more cost-effective and using less the babyto control themother, but that's  Pradesh govemment has planned to use  computational power, making themideal abouttheonlyexample I know of, he had  AI-enabled cameras, radio frequency. for specific tasks. Big techgiants Microsoft, said conceding on a previous account y identification (RFID) wristbands and Google, Meta, Amazon and others are that he wished he'd thought about safety  mobile app tacking to track the head- investing billions in developinggeneral- globa! markets. Last year saw several  earlier - allud ing to his apprehension count of pilgrims at the upcoming reli- purpose LMs to handle avariety of tasks, launches of lightweight models such as aboutthe potential forAl to ramp up the gious carnival Startingin Prayagraj on Jan- but they might not be able to be cus- Microsoft's Phi family of SlMs, Google's arms race. Hinton has been speaking uary 13, approximately 450 million tomised for certain needs. They may Gemma and a smaller variant of Meta's about the potentiaI dangers of unregu- devotees are likdy to attend Mahakumbh, require a smaller version of generative AI. Hama model. Microsoft's Sundar Srini- Lated AI development after he resigned which is recognised by UNEScO as an Infosys chief technology  officer vasan wasalso quoted assaying that while  from Go0glein2 023. He madeheadlines Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. HIMs have pushed the boundariesof accu- when heleft Googleand raised alarms of The government will also launch a dedi- quoted as saying that several small lan- racy across various Al tasks throughout the repercussions of machinessuch asAI cated website and app,anAI-powered chat- guage mo dels for India-specific needs have  2024, SLMs have driven mass adoption that could one day outsmart people, bot in 11 languages,QR code-based passes already been launched and witha growing and true democratisation of AI. Industry adding thatthere is also the possibility of for people and vehicdes, and a multil ingual developerbase, a Iot more GenAI applica- experts are certainlylooking atSlMs asthe so me bad ac torsexploitingAl for destruc- digitallost-and-found centre forvisitors. tions will be implemented for Indian and. next bigthinginAI. tive purposes.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094213.png]
Kissa and kahani GARIMA SADHWANI and mainstream musicians from the  nate in bringing in people from all age Amid countless Hindi film industry. Prarthana groups to thedifferent events and pan- Gahilote, festival director of Kathakar eIs; while also organising some sessions avenues of FTHERE's ONE thing that global- International Storytellers Festival, for children. entertainment that  isation has tried to very covertly which is in its 14 th year and set tohost Accumulating funds to organise take away from us, it's our own its 18th edition, says they aIso curate these festivals is a big hurdle too. are just a click away, traditions, the ones that we grew special sessions for their festival to Rachna Gahilote Bisht, Kathakar's fes- up with and held close to our bring in schoolchildren. tival organiser, says finding funds is a some festivals are hearts for many many ages. Until one Roshan Abbas, the founder of Kom- cyde you could get stuck in. To bring attempting to keep day, we woke up and never induIged in mune and festival director of Spoken people to the festival,you haveto host a them again. Fest, which was held in Shillong on  magnitude of international performers the tradition of oral One such tradition that has been at December 6 last monthand is gearing up -the production and management therisk of being lost for quite some time forits Mumbai edition on February 1-2 costs of which are a burden to handle, storytelling alive now is oral storytelling. Remember the tels FE that their programming, too, is and if you don't have a specialised tales your grandmother used to tellyou *intentionally structured to appeal to lineup, the crowdswon't come. whiletucking you inbed,themagic that  peo ple across age groups.Theyhold pan- With Kathakar travelling to Delhi, mushairas held, the Ramayana and eIs showcasing contemporary story. Jodhpur, Chennai and Shimla for its Mahabharata tales recited in your telling, celebrating classical art foms, upcoming edition,money becomes an neighbourhoods, and even the extem- conversations withwritersand directors, even bigger concern. Fortunately, says  pore competitions in school where you and pefomanceshowcases. Bisht, *Since 2013,we have been part- invariably fum bled or laughed? But it's not easy to organise these nering with the Union ministry of cuI- In atinewhen countlessavenuesof festivals year after year. Gahilote of ture, and for the past two editions, entertainment are just a click away, Kathakar says, "People across all age Delhi Tourism has been supporting us preserving the OGs can be an arduous groups are now glued to their gadgets. as well" task, onethat might feel too tedious. It is difficult to hold their attention for Walking the talk But there are some people who have more than a fev minutes." held onto them firmly, to keep intact  Singha of Udaipur Tales agrees. She But, beyond these annual events, the the glory of an almost pious art Iaments that with people so immersed attempt to keep going at oral story. form-one that myths and mytholo- in the digital world, they rarely get the telling remains. Kathakar's organisers gies hugely relied on. chance to "experience the emotional  hold sessions for children in hospitals, Take for instance, story- connection of listening to a storyin per- schools,and faith-based organisations. telling festivals-Kathaalok  son".And when theydo, more often than With collaboration with NGOs such as held in Delhi, Gaatha: Mum- not, they tend to capture it virtually  Nivesh, thefestival hasalso beensetting  bai International Storytelling rather than be present. up public libraries to"inculcate a habit Festival, Kathakar scheduled to ofreadingin children. All said & done be held in the national capital from What's also interesting is that fes- January 31-February 2, UdaipurTales Bringing any crowd, especially tivals don't justhelp people engagein to be heId in its namesake Rajasthani young people, to festivals is a task in an art form they Iook up to, they also city from January 10-12, and Spoken itself. So the organisers are now offer- help create future avenues for the Fest, among others. Held across ing them a plethora of formats to artistes themselves. Says Abbas, regions, they have been wonderful draw them in and heIp them discover "We've witnessed some remarkable avenues to bring patrons of the art newtalent. journeys-from Mohammad Mun- form together. At Udaipur Tales, for instance, folk eem, the phenomenal singer from  Says Sushmita Singha,co-founderat artists, gawwals, dastangos, and even Kashmir who credits Spoken as the UdaipurTales: *We are creating a space storytellers from Latin America and beginning of his new life, to Srushti where people can pause, connect, and Francewill be performing. Tawade's evolution as a rapper, and truly live the magic of storytelling. The However,Abbas does acknowledge, Hussain Haidry finding his broader bond between the storyteller and the "Our digital presence has been instru- audience. Even established artistes listener is something no digital  mental in engaging younger audiences. like Kausar Munir have used our plat- medium can replicate,and that iswhat With 82% of our audience between form to showcase different facets of draws people to festiva Is" ages 18 and 35 years, Spoken Fest theirartistry" Kathakar will be hosting artists from invites a Iot of mindful millennials and That said, Abbas does note that the Poland, UK, Australia, Mongolia and Gen Z seekingauthentic experiences. Spoken Fest team is exploring an Estonia, among other countries; while Singha, too, mentions that the expansion into schools, to help build

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094238.png]
SCREEN TIME Your entertainment bucket list for this week THE BREAKTHROUGH JERRY SPRINgER: FIgHTS, DEN OF THIEVES 2:  NOSFERATU BLACK WARRANT Netflix CamERA, AcTIOn PANTERA Theatres Netflix Releases: Janvary 7 Netflix  Releases: Janvary 10  Releases: January 10. Theatres Releases: Janvary 7  Releases: Janvary 10 WHeNA DOUBlE MURDeR in Linkoping,Swe- INTHE 1830s, estate agent Thomas Hutter trav- THE FIRST-OF-ITS-KINDprison drama offers a den,was finally solved after 1 6years,it wasa els toTransylvania fora fateful meeting with  thrilling ex ploration of the morally charged genealogist who made the breakt hrough,a first. MOST'90s KIDs wILLrenember the chants LAWMAn 'BIG NICK' O'BRIEN gets embroiledin Count Orlok, a prospective client In his. world ofAsia's largest prison,Tihar, throughthe. in Europe during that time. The Brenkthrough is. from days spent home sick from school brows- thetreacherous and unpredictable world of  absence, Hutter's new bride, Ellen, is Ieft under cyesof rookiejailer Sunil Kumar Gupta, as he a fic tional storyabout theunexpected hero, an ing television,landing on the wild,often contro-  diamond thievesas he pursues careercriminal thecare of their friends, Friedrich and Anna takesonsome of India'smost notorious offend- unlikely collaboration, and the hunt fora killer. versialJerrySpringerShow.Hosted bythelate Donnie Wilson to Europe.The action crime Harding.Plagued by horrific visions and an ers.Zahan Kapoormakeshisseriesdebut as But iti also astoryabout how an unsolved fomer Cincinnati mayor and Iocal news anchor  drama film is a direct sequel to the 2018 film increasing sense of dread, Ellen soon encoun- Sunil Kumar Gupta,joined by atalented cnsem- crime affects society and what happens to peo-  JerrySpringer, the daytimetalk showran for 27 Den of Th ic ves and stars Gerard Butler, O'shea ters an evil forcethat's far beyond her control. ble including Rahul Bhat,Paramvir Singh ple who are left without answers to both seasons.The two-part documentaryseries Jackson Jrand MeadowWilliams,reprising The gothic horror fiIm is a remake of the 1922 Who?'and why?. explorestheshow'sorigins and meteoric rise. their roles from the first filn.. silent film Nosfe ratu. each playing pivotal roles in this gnitty tale.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094306.png]
First-class upgrades: How to score a sweeter seat spendersorasa perkfor frequent fliers,is makeit to first class, orin premium econ- Airlines are offering now open to a growing number of trav.  omyif you want to m ove to business. ticket confirmation, and a quick Google  ellers willing to bid for an upgrade,spend "That will be much Iess expensive, and search of that plane type and the airline more ways than ever to Ioyalty points or shell out extra cash. then you can utilisecredit card points or name will reveal a seat map. get a taste of the Two decades ago, Ddta Air Lines typ- miles" to bridge the gap, Berklich said.  Reddit threads and forums aIso offer  ica lly filled much of its first-class cabin Combine cash and credit card points plenty of tips about both first-class and champagne skies, but with high-status frequent fliers.But now, Points, m iles and dollars can be com- business-class cabins: On Emirat es Airbus more than 70% of seats are taken by bined to get into first class, as long as you how do you get past  A380s, for example travellerssay the win- use therighttools. Points from credit cards dow seats in business dass behind the curtain, and when privilege of sittingup front, both through  can be transferred to airinemileage the bulkhead are the quietest;  paid upgradesandthepurchase of a full- programmes, often at a one-to- in Unit ed's Polaris busines-class is it worth the cost? TRANSFER  pricefare, according to Glen Hauenstein, one  ratio. You can ca bin on the the president of Delta. Airlines are combine those miles and CREDITCARDS Boeing 787 Dreamliner, respondingtothis hungerby expanding points to book a first-dass  Pointsto Airline travellers say seats 9A and DEBRA KAMIn first-class and business-class cabins - award ticket. MiLEAgE 9L have 'the   Largest which in turn creates even more oppor- Websites like Point,me,  PROGRAMMES footwells, making them VISIONS OF CHAMPAGNE and lie-fIat tunities forupgrades. COMBINE BOTH  Roame.travel and attractive for tall passen. seats danced in my head when Azores But choose wisely: Not all premium  Pointhound can help you CBOOKA gers seeking extra legroom. Airlines accepted my 500-euro bid to search for a flight route and FIRSTCUASS upgmade ny husband and meto business have the facts, you absolutely can be Be patient, but ready  see which airline programmes TICKET class d uring our kid -free vacation this robbed," Berklich said. Here are some. will give you the best deal if you to pounce past August. But the reality was far less tips for making your lie-flat dreams transfer, while Points Path, a free How much it costs to upgrade, and  come true. bro wser extension, will show you award when those prices change, depends on a inches more than regular coach seats. ting a"domestic first cass" product that  Iet ries, and yes,chanpagne.  pricing alongside cash pricing when you Iot: route,denand,even howmuch people. There was no screen for TV or movies. Research the routes  more closdyresemblessomeintemational On carriers like Etihad Airways, Sin- search for a tic ket in Google flights. have historicallybeen willing to pay. Weateexactly the same m eal theyserved The quality -- and extravagance -- of businessclassor premiumeconomy. gaporeAidines and Emirates,a first-class So is it better to upgrade when you your first-dass experience is going to Check the seat map at theback oftheplane.And that bubbly?  In other words did you book first class ticket can unlock three-room suites, book, orwait un til the day of your flight? A bust.  depend on where you're flying to  on Deta from Kennedy Airport to Hous- showers and unlimited caviar. Before yousplurge,always peek at the seat - There's nohard and fastrule,Kdlysaid. There are more of us cabin dimbers and from. ingchart foryour aircraft.On some airlines,  Instead, check in on your airlineapp every t han ever,and manyof usmake thesame That's because "there's actually two  more legroom and a cocktail before take- Book in the next lowest class induding Lufthansa, Emirates and Amer-  few days to see if costs have budged.And rookie mistake I did, said Anthony Berk- types offirstd ass," said Brian Kely, founder. off,butdon't expectto be blown away. First  Beingbumped up from seat 47B to 1Ais ican, you can book first class and still end lich,thefounderoftheluxury NewYork- ofthe Points Guy, a website dedicated to classon Air France from Paris to Kennedy, next to impossible, said Berklich, because up with a neighbour directly next to you.  offer - and to be spoiled for every future based travel agency Inspired Citizen.  maximisngairlineand credit-card Ioyalty however, comes with chauffeur service to airlines allowupgradesone tier at atime. "You can have a wil dlydifferent experience flight. "You can't unsee what you've seen Access to first and business class, once  programmes.If you're flying within the So set yourself up for success by first depending on the plane you're on" aImost reserved for big United Statesyo u re almost definitelyget- gage,amenitieslike pajamasand SisIey toi-  booking in business dlass if you want to Kelly said. plane" Kelly said. Ln-

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094337.png]
savoured premium Iberico pork loin with Traditional food tourism is dead.. fiery Padron peppersand femnented black  beans, watching Chinese families chat at nearbytables, Irealised something funda-  mental had shifted in how we experience food through travel. Something fascinatingis emerging We can now observe food cultures  developin real time,shaped by migration and internet connec tivity. The old model of chasing cultural cachet by travelling to specific destinations for "authentic"local cuisine is fading fast, worn down by streaming food documentaries, algo. rithm-driven Instagram recommenda- tions that expose everyhidden gem and the democratisation of travel through  budget flights and Airbnbs. With global  foods more accessible than ever, the real  cutting edge of culinary exploration lies not in destination travelling but in the next wave of third-culture cuisines at  the int ersections of tradition,inmigration and diaspora. Food tourism as we've known it has become a victimofitsown success.You no DUAFI  longer need to visit Paris for macarons  from Laduree whenyou can find then at  shops in major US cities or have  them delivered to yourhome via Goldbelly, a service that specialises in iconic restaurant  dishes and regional specialties. Even Tokyo's Tsukiji market experi- ence has gone  glo bal: The chd's  which our plates are seeing inspiration and influence from around the world. at Masa in New York and three millionTurks(both immigrantsand - the spicy, skewered street meat known What was once celebrated as a mosaic as both through ddiveryappsorsocial media.You SoT u oz !ysns a cul-  members of the diaspora) who have been. for its distinct blend of ground peanuts of dis tinct ethnic endaves has become a can't truly understand how immigrant Angeleshavetold tural life. developing their own food identity there  laboratory for the future of global cuisine.  communities are reshaping French iden- me that the same line  for since the1960s. that could influence the next generation Yes, you can stilline up at Katz's Deli or titywithout walking through Paris's 13th fish being auc- Chinese  In Lima,chifa (Chinese Peruvian) and of Brit ish cuisine.New York offers grab a bagel at Russ & Daughters, Arrondissement, home to the city's China-  tioned in the famous expatriates Nikkei (Japanese Peruvian) dishes are a dlearwindowintothisphe- but the real culinary excite- town and a large Asian community. You bazaar arrives daily in  in Spain and as redefining Peruvian cuisine to reflect a  nomenon. The city now has  ment is happening in Can't grasp Singapore's culinary innova- their restaurants. an introduction 150-year history ofAsian immigration. a network ofinternational  places like Tatiana and  tion byordering froma ghost kitchen. The The obscure treasures in to regional Chinese While tourists flock to the latest New food markets offering  Depart ment of Culture,  most innovative Italian dish might come  back alleys are now bookmarked cooking  for curious Nordic hot spotsin Copenhagen, there'san immediate access to where chefs with West  from a chef in Tokyo who never set foot in on Tik Tok, with Uber dropping touristsat Madrilenos. Diners there can emerging African diaspora cuisine in world-dlassingredients African roots are  Italy but understands the essence of the wash down their meals wit h sangria or bai- St ockholm, where restaurants like Jebena  and authentic dishes reimagining their cui-  cuisine through a globallens A pop-up in  before going to restaurants,theyknowthe serve injera. These immigrant-owned such as the finest sine through a fine. Toronto might be defining the future of chef'sstory,and theyarrive at alreadyrated Spanish and Chinese drinking traditions. establishments are quietly reshaping Ibeico ham at dining lens. These Mexican street food byincorporating tech- Orconsider a staple of Gemancuisine. Nord ic cuisine in ways that could make Mercado, fresh aren't just fusion niques and ingredients that would be But here's where it gets interesting: You don't need to travel to Germanyfor  Noma - the revolutionary restaurant pasta at Eataly, a restaurants or immi- unthinkableinOaxaca. What we're witnesingisn't just the dedline Oktoberfest and bratwurst anymore; you in Denmark that put foraging and fer- Selection of pre. "ada ptations; Theworld'snext great cuisineisn't hid- grant of traditional food tourism; it's the birthof can get that in Cincinnati at the giant  mentation at the heart offine dining --  mium gochugaru at they're entirely new  den in some undiscovered corner of the something farmorefascinating. Zinzinnati festival or at the Wurstfest in seemtraditional. H-Mart markets and cul tural expressions. globe.It's being created right now, in the Take Chila in Madrid. The storefront New Braunfels, Texas. But what you will In Toronto, West In dian-inspired inno- thevast Indian grocery One excitingaspect of spaces where cultures,traditionsand tech- could have been plucked straight from  find in Germany is how the culinary land- vations are producing completely new at Patel Brothersin Jack- this evolution is that it's  nologiesmingle That's where thereal food Hunan's spice-loving heartland. It serves scape has been transfomed by the neady flavour pro files.In London, Nigerian suya son Heights. impossible to experience it adventurebegins. -nyt

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 094953.png]
Border-Gavaskar Trophy: As Bumrah leaves, captain' Kohli calls the shots.  Kohli took charge signalling him to bowl in th: channel outside off, draw bac. after Bumrah Ieft. the Iength or gesture with h. wrists to whip the ball down. bowling due to spasm And Australia kept Iosing wick ets as Kohli orchestrated th: SrIRam VEErA fidd and the bowlingAs h: Sydney, Janvary 4. walked back to the dressin: room,Rohit Sharma was stand VIRATKOHLI'S FIRST act of the ing att he entrance with asmile day stemmed from forgetful- A while eadlier,duringIund ness. He went and stood at sec- break, Rohit had given an inter ond slip,hiscustomaryposition viewtoStar Sportswherehewa when Rohit Shama tenantsthe asked if any youngster in th: first slipposition. KL Rahul ges- team was ready for captainc! tured to Kohli, who smiled, and yet."They are new boys. I know went and stood in the first slip. they should be given responsi Thatwastheonly'lapse'as Kohli bility. But Iet them earnit.Le wasactivelyinvolved in everylit- them play some hard-fought tle move through Australia's cricket for the next few years  bat ting innings. whateverit is. Let then eam it, Hislast act of the daytoowas Rohit said.After a while, Kohl from memory, albeit bad mus- would emerge padded up, and cIe memory. He was livid with Kohli bats during play on the 2nd day of the fifth cricket Test between India and Australia p sit on a chair, just outside th: himself afterstabbingat a back- dressing room, next to of-Iength kicker from Scott called Nitish Kumar from third Bumrah acknowledged him  bowl.And Bumrah did replace themasseur. Boland, edging it to slips.A day mantoget back to slips.Konstas with a raised right hand, Kohli Siraj next over. For 3.4 overs, the masseu that had started brightly ended took the bait, lapped Bumrahto  pounded an imaginaryballonto He kept talkingand moving massaged his right arm- mov. withhim cursing himself on his the exactspotvacated,and Kohli the turf,justin case Bumrahdid-  his fielders after lunch after ing from the fingers to the toj wayback to the dressingroom. pushed him back. In the next n't hear hin.At the end of that Bumrah'sexit.Thehandswould and shoulder and neck ant Not only after the exit of over,when Siraj took out Kon- over, Kohli ran to Siraj, his hand wave, a fidderwould be moved  coming down again to fingers Jasprit Bumrah, who Ieft after stas with an away-shaper that overthebowler'sshoulders ashe to Ieft or right, or dloser. He kept At the end, Kohli stood up. bowlingjustone over after lunch was taken in the gully by  spoke to hin aImost all theway givingathumbs-upsignalfrom smiled, and had a laugh an. for an injury that's not been Yashasvi Jaiswal,Kohli setoffon to fine-leg, and gestured to the slip to Prasidh Krishna, chatted withAbhishek Nayar. madeofficial yet but even while a run to try to chase down Siraj. Bumrahon hiswayback again to whenever a good line-and- A double strike would ge! India's premier bowler was stil! As the bowler slowed down, bowl.And Bumrah did replace Iength ball arrived. Krishnahad him to go out to bat, and h: On the field, Kohli took charge. Iookingand screamingin joy at Siraj next over. perhaps been a bit nervy ini- strode out with his bat heId or Hehad donethattoan extent at the crowd, Kohli too would have At one point, he even ges- tially, and things could have his right shoulder. He went the Perth Test as well when a look at the crowd, and thump tured to Jasprit Bumrah, who gone pear-shaped, especially straighttoShubman Gill to hav. Bumrah wasthe captain, taking his chest,and alsothump Siraj's. had finished his first spdl, to after Bumrah's departure, but a chat. Butit would end shortl care of the field placings but Bumrah took himself off bring himself on to bowl. Kohli Kohlikepttalking and gesturing after when Boland produced here hewas a Iot more animat- afterthis, and Siraj bowled one  ran to the bowler Mohammad to him. Slowly, Prasidh settled, aImost the same ball that had edlyinvolved in the process. more,his seventh, when Kohli Siraj at the end of that over,put and when he got Webster's dismissed him in the firs  Kohli was buzzing all over got into the act again. Near the his hand overSiraj'sshouldersas wicket with a kicker outside off, innings. Kohli would put h the place- here, there, every- end of that Siraj over, Kohli ges-  he spoke to him almost all the  Kohli was very animated, run- head down and screani, wrin? where When Sam Konstas was turedto Jasprit Bumrahtobring way to fine-leg, and gesturedto ning to high-five hin.Hewould his hand, and walk off on strike forthe 11th over, Kohli himself on to bowl. Even as  Bumrahon his wayback again to alsodothesametoNitish Reddy, muttering under his breath.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 095050.png]
Microsoft to spend $80 billion on AI data centres this year . r |S Korea investigators ask acting  BLOOMBERg that balances strong security prez to clearway for Yoon's arrest  January 4  protection for AI components in trusted data centres with an mIcrosoft corp plans to ability for US companies to REUTERS expand rapidly and provide a  Seoul, January 4 year building out data centres, reliable source of supply to the underscoringthe intense cap. many countries that are South korean investiga- ital requirements of artificial American allies and friends," TORS again asked the country's intelligence. Smith wrote. acting president on Sat urday to More than half of this pro- Much of the spending on order the presidential security Microsoft.  jected spending through june datacenters goes toward high-  serviceto complywithan arrest 2025 will be in the uS, powered chips from compa. warrant for im peached Presi- Microsoft President Brad nies including Nvidia Corp and dent Yoon Suk Yeol.. Smith wrote in a blog post.  infrastructure providers such The security service, along Recent Al progressis thanks to as Dell Technologies Inc. "Iarge-scale " infrastructure The massive AI-enabled  People protesting against impeached S Korean president Yoon inve stments that serve as the server farms require Iots of  arrestin gYoon Suk Yeol in asix- essential foundation of AI power,  which prompted hour standoff inside Yoon's Suk Yeol near his official residence in Seoul on Saturday. In the previous fiscal year, Microsoft spent morethan $50 billion on capex, the vast AEUTE RS innovation and use," Smith  majority related to server farm construction fueled by demand for Al services. AEvTERs Microsoft to strike a deal compound. The investigators again asked acting President tial security service, of Park wrote. Cloud infrastructure to reopen a reactor at the secured the warrant to arrest Choi Sang-mok, the nation's Chong jun,to appear for ques. providers like Microsoft and 2024, Microsoft spent more intelligence services. icypriorityshould beto ensure Three Mile Island nuclear Yoon over his brief decaration finance minister, to order the tioning on Tuesday, Yonhap Amazon.com Inc have been than $so billion on capital Smith also cautioned the  that the US private sector can. power plant in PennsyIvania, Of martial law last month. presidential security service to News reported.Yoon's Decem- racing to expand computing ex penditures, the vast major-  incoming Trum p administra-  continue to advance with the the site of a notorious partial The Corruption Investiga- cooperate with the warrant.A ber 3 martial dedaration capacity by constructing new ity related to  server wind atits back,"Smith wrote. meltdown in 1979. Amazon tion Office for High-Ranking finance ministry spokesperson St unned So uth Koreaand ledto  data centres. In the previous farm construction fueled by regulations"related to AI.*The The country needs"a prag.  and Google have also signed Officals, which is investigating declined to comment The police the first arrest warrant to be fiscal year ending in June artificial  most important US public-poI- matic export control policy nuclear agreements.  the case,said on Saturday it had asked the chiof of the presiden- demand for issued for a sitting president.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-05 095110.png]
Chinese dam on table for Sullivan's India visit AI, civilian nuclear cooperation, space  may also be taken up REUTERS Washington, January 4 1 us National Security adviser Jake Sullivan's visit to * Delhi from Jauary. 5-6 is expected to include discus- sionswith Indian counterparts about the impact of Chinese dams, a senior US officiaI said Iate on Friday. Washington and its West- ern allies have long viewed India as a counter to China's rising influence in Asia and beyond."We've certainly seen in many places in the Indo- Washington also expects to discuss Chinese economic Pacific that upstream dams overcapacity during the visit FLE PHOTO. REUTE RSO that the Chinese have created, induding in the Mekong officials say that hydropower nomic overcapacity will be region, can have really poten- projects in Tibet will not have a brought up in the visit, the US tially damaging environmen- major impact on the environ- official said. tal but also dimateimpacts on ment or on downstreanwater American officials will not downstream countries," supplies. The construction of be meeting the Dalai Lama a  senior US officiaI said ahead of that dam, which will be the during the visit, another US Sullivan's visit. Iargest of its kind in the world official said.India and the US The official added that with an estimated capacity of have built dose ties in recent Washington will discuss New 300 billion kilowatt-hours of years with  occasional Delhi's concerns in the visit. electricity annually, was differences over issues like Government says it has con- approved Iast month. minority abuse in India, ties veyed its concerns to Beijing Washington also expects with Russia amid Moscow's about China's plan to build a that topics such as dvilian invasion of Ukraine and hydropower dam in Tibet on nudear cooperation, artificial alleged assassination plots the Yarlung Zangbo River intelligence, space, military against Sikh separatists on US which flowsinto India.Chinese licensing and Chinese eco- and Canadian soil.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215056.png]
From using Harshad Mehta's broker-banker-promoter template to front-running, Parekh continues to keep regulators busy Ketan Parekh: Dark side of markets. AkshatA gOrDe  manipulation, operating through Global Tele-Systems, and HFCL, circular trading, wherein he along of windfall gains, but little did they As the market turbulence coin- Mumbai, January 5  proxies and front accounts,which were much sought after by fellow with his team executed similar sell  know that they were falling into a cided with the Budget session of led to trading bans for 26 entities in brokers and investors. Stock orders in the same price trap. But then the dot-com bust  2001, the government was pres- OLD Habits DiE hard, and Ketan  2009. 1n 2020, his name surfaced  prices of scrips like Visualsoft in the same number  cameat the beginningof 2001,and  sured to look into thecrash, and sub- Parekh seems intent on proving yet again in connectionwith afresh rose from625 to<8,448 pcr at the same time the bear cartel began hammering  sequentlya probe was initiated by that he is the poster boy of that rigging scandal, but he was eventu-  share and Sonata Software which spiked his favourite stocks.The sharp drop  the Sec uritiesand Exchange Boardof phrase. Forthe'Pentafour bull,who ally convicted in 2023 for duping an  from 290to2,150. trading volumes.  in the shares'valua tions prompted India (Sebi) and a joint parliamen- was convicted in a stock market  investorof 2 crorewith thehelp of Parekh controlled the Gullible  retail  banks, who were holding these tary committee into Parekh's deal-  scam over two decades ago, stock a female associate. entire show from behind investors rushed stocks as pledges,to call in formore ings. Consequently, he wasjailed.  market manipulation is an addic- Parekh's first shot at in famywas the scenes using benami to invest in these  securities and repayment of loans. Investigations revealed that this tion hejust can't give up. in thelate 1990s -- almost adecade accounts,proxytraders,and stocks seeingthe Parekh'smost infamous associa- wasn't Parekh's first crime -- hewas In less than a decade after his after big bull Harshad Mehta's bro-  Ioans from various banks, to pumped up tion was with Madhavpura Mercan- also involved in the Canbank Mutual 2003-2017 ban from the stock  ker-banker-promoter nexus had  orchestrate a huge pump demand in hopes tile Cooperative Bank (MM CB), from  Fund scam of 1992,whereinvarious market ended,Parekh met the same eroded investor confidence in the and dump scheme. which he borrowed nearly <800 entities had siphoned off 47 crore.  fate again last week -- this time for stock market The timing was per- He generated crore to fund his market operations, Interestingly, despite working with front-running. fect too.Thedot-com boon was rag. artificial usinginfl ated stock prices as collat- Mehta in GrowMore Investment, Even in these two decades since ing, and Parekh replicated Mehta's  demand for eral.Afterthe crash, MMC B was Idft  Parekh had initially came out of the his first debarment, his brush with model to drive up stock prices. these K-10 clutching worthless shares, trigger-  scam reativey unscathed. the Iaw has continued. Parekh His K-10 stocks, including stocks ing a financial crisis, followed bya  allegedly remained active in market names like Pentamedia Graphics, through  payment crisisat major exchanges. Continued on Page 5

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215127.png]
Fast & flexible: Startups turn to revenue-based financing o E-commerce & SaaS ALTERNATIVE pin drive demand amid FUNDING comparso Ventredeb muted equity markets  Under RBF, madean firms access funds AYANTI BERA in exchange for $900m Bengaluru, Janvary 5 5-20%  The model's appeal liesin its flexibility, speed and alignment innvetnent Startups, EspecialLy in e-com1- of gross revenue with revenue cycles in2025 merce and B2B software-as-a-ser- as monthly vice (SaaS), Ieaned heavily on rey- repayment, along  Collectively, Velocity and enue-based financing(RBF)in2 024 with afixedfee on Get Vantage have deployedaround 1,000 crore as equity markets remained muted. the principal in RBF sincetheir inception in 2019-20 The trend marked a shift in how businesses sought capital for growth, inventory management, for startups navigating tough small and medium enterprises and market expansion. funding environments. (SM Es) that often struggle to secure  RBF platforms such as Velocty "A Iot of brands are looking for institutional capital or traditional and GetVantage experienced a capital to grow in quick commerce bank Ioans.Companies can access surge in activity, with Velocity and manage inventory effectively, funds in exchange for 5-20% of reporting a 50% increase in dis- said Atul Khichariya, co-founder gross revenue as monthly repay. bursals and GetVantage doubling and COO of Velocity. "We've aIso  ment, coupled with a fixed fee on its investments. These platforms, observedrising demand from dloud theprincipal Thefeeranges from 6 which offer non-collateralised kitchen startups over the past few 6.5% for a six-month term to 10. Ioans repaid as a percentage of a months,he added. 12% forup to a year. company's gross revenue, have RBF offersa flexibleand accessi- emergedas critical funding sources bIe funding option for startups and Continued on Page 5

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215152.png]
FY25 DISBURSEMENT MAY BE MARGINALLY LOWER ON YEAR Direct benefit transfers top R4 lakh crore so far this fiscal PRASANTA SAHU HEADROOM TO ImPROVE SPENDING QUALiTY New Delhi, Janvary 5 DBT ( lakh crore)  OfDBT transfers made so far 6.3 7.2 THE CENTRE HAS transferred in 5y25, 2.54 lakh crore, 6.9 assorted subsid ies and sops worth 5.5 or 61%, was in kind. The about 24.15 lakh crore to benefi- remaining was cashtransfers to ciaries through direct benefit 4.15 transfer (DBT) so far in the current Aadhaar-linked bank accounts fiscal, reflecting an acceleration in  Subsidies worth the pace of government spending ZL21 Iakh crore were in the third quarter. transferred towards subsidised The Centre undertook DBT fertiliser so far in FY25 while worth about R2.3 Iakh crore in the Aoundk52L92ar has boen subsidies worth about first half of FY25, as general elec- <1.08 lakh crore were tanferred forHGHaN REGSand FY21|FY22|FY23|FY24 IFY2S* tions and Iate presentation of the transferred as food grains Cis6oar for cookng gas 'So far full Budget slowed down theimple- mentation of programmes. Direct benefit transfers reached and employment-linked incen tives. transferred for the job guarantee ofthe central government schenes a record < 7.16 Iakh crorein FY23, Of DBT transfers made so far in scheme,Mahatma Gandhi National (320) resultedin 3.5 lakhcrore sav- Largdydueto thefree grains scheme FY 25, 2.54 Iakh crore,or 61%, was Rural Employment Guarantee ings due to plugging of leakages and higher subsidies on fertiliser in kind. The remaining was cash scheme (MGNREGS) between FY15 and FY23. duetoprice rises.. transfers to Aadhaar-linked bank and 11,860 crore for subsidised More than 1.68 billion benefi- According to trends, the DBT in accounts. cooking gas. ciaries are registered under various FY25 could be slightly Iower than Subsidiesworth<1.21 lakhcrore For Pradhan Mantri Gramin DBT schemes. 6.91 lakh crore in FY24. weretransferred towardssubsidised Awas Yojana-Rural, 16, 566 crore The DBT-induced savings gave Given that the full Budget was fertiliser so far in FY2 5 while subsi- has been transferred sofarin FY25,  managers of governmentfinancesa presented in July, rollout of various dies worth about 1.08 lakh crore compared witha Budget outlay of significant headroom to improve new scheme was delayed,incuding were transferred to beneficiariesin 5 4, 500 crore for the full year, indi- spending quality and offer addi- the new or revamped programmes the form of food grains under the cating that there would be a short- tional welfare benefits to deserving like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-  public distribution system (PDS). fall in spending thisyear. beneficiaries without constraining Gramin (PMAY-G), Urban(PMAY-U) Around < 52,492 crore has been Direct benefit transfer for most the exchequertoo much.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215209.png]
Agri credit scales new high, FDI in India growing to cross 28 lakh cr in FY25 rapidly, says Goyal oSeenup10%; BENEFITTING FARMERS Press trust Of inDIA 30  Agri-credit flow 28* credit aids process  New Delhi, January 5 ( trillion) 25.49 - Target SANDIP DAS 21.55 FDIInFLOWs inTOthecountryare 25 New Delhi, Janvary 5 Disbursal surging, with investors from the 18.63 West Asia, Japan, European Union, THE REL EASE OF credit to the agri- 20  15.75 and the US recognising India's sta- culture sector by commercial banks tus asa topinvestment destination, and regional rural banks is likely to 13.9 drivingrapid economic growth and 15 cross<28lakhcrore,anewrecord,due generating millions of new jobs, toarise in fomali stion ofrural credit commerce and ind ustry minister struct ure,Shaji KV, chaiman,Nabard 10 Piyush Goyal has said. said on Sunday. In the last ten years He said that global investors are the average annual growthin the flow showing keen interest in India as ofagricult ural credit has been indou- 5 3!5 the country offers several advan- ble digit at 13% We will be crossing tages such as strong domestic mar- 28 lakh crore of credit flow in the 1 ket, skilled and talented workforce 0 current fiscal, Shaji told FE. 2 22 and rule of law. Theagri-creditdisbursement tar- "I can clearly see foreign direct get of a record  27.5 Iakh crore by investment in India once again financial institutions was set for Source: fnance ministry, *projected growing rapidly and creating mil- FY25,which was 31% higher com- lions of jobs. Countries in the West pared to target of 21 lakh crore in will provide <20.62 Iakh crore or Shaji said that Nabard is aiming Asia, EFTA region, Japan, and FY24. The banks had disbursed 75% of the total credit earmarked to Iaunch part II of the R1,000 crore investors from the EU and the US 25.49 Iakh crore in FY24 under for farmers in thecurrent fiscal. Nabventures fund focussed on the areallrealising that Indiacontinues term and crop Ioans, a rise of 15% Out of total agri-credit flow, 24.2 startupsin agriculture and allied sec- to be the most preferred destination compared to FY23. The growth this Lakh crore has been earmarked for toralongwith clinate smart agricul- for FDI, GoyaI said. year is seen to be about 10%. short tem Ioansto thelivestock sec- ture as a keyelenment. Nabard in col- He added that India's stable and "With a rise in agri-credit flow, tor-dairy,fisheries and poultryinthe Iaboration with the agriculture  predictable regulatory framework, access of share of informal sector in current fiscal To address this imbal- ministry Iast year had Iaunched  coupled with a favourable business cedit disbursement is dedining ance in credit flow, he said National 2750 croreanagri fund for start-ups environment and progressive poli- which indicate fomali sation of rural  BankforAgriculture and Rural Devd- and rural enterprises (Agri-SURE) cies aimed at enhancing ease of credit, which would ensure a Iot of opment(Nabard)would use digitised aimed at early stage start-ups. doing business, is attracting an margins with the rural population," credit record offarmersthroughAgri Under the modified interest sub- increasing number of investors he said at the sideline of 'Grameen Stack-an initiative of agriculture ventionscheme (MIss),famershold- from around theworld. Bharat M ahotsav' being organi sed by ministrywhichwould createregistry ing Kisan credit cards (KCCs) are pro- "Last month I met a CEO of one Nabard in col laboration wit hdepart-  of farmers,village land naps and crop vided up to 3 Iakh Ioans at 7% of the largest funds in theUS,whois ment of financial services. sown. Last fiscal, credit disbursal to interest per annum to meet their also the largest investor in India, The finance ministry has ear- Tamil Naduwas highestat <4.39tril- working capital requirement. The and he shared with me that his marked R16 lakh crore for the short  lion(17.6%of disbursal in the coun- scheme provides additional interest investments in India over the last tem croploansand <11.51akhcrore try) followed by Andhra Pradesh subvention of 3% for prompt repay- 10years havebeen someof thebest to term Ioans to be disbursed by accountingfor<2.96trillion or12%  ment ofthe loan, therebyreducingthe investnents his funds have ever banks for FY2 5.Commercial bankse of thedisbursal in 2023-24. effec tive rate of interest to 4% done,"he noted.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215227.png]
OMCs may see muted refining margins in FY26 ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ capitalis expected tomoderate but SLIPPERY PATH  India's upstream New Delhi, Janvary 5 remain healthy. However, funding companies may face capex for new geographical areas  It is due to sluggish global State-Owned Oil marketing a decline in Ebitda couldfacepressureduetodeclining consumer and industrial demand,  dueto moderating companies(OmCs)arelikelyto regis. intemal accruals.  particularly in China oil prices ter subdued gross refining margins "Performance of standalone (GRMs) during FY26 due to duggish B Oil prices averaged The credit petrochemicaIplayersmayimprove  Integrated global consumer and industrial $78.7/bbI during FY26 as theybenefit froman profile of OmCs demand, particularly in China,and in Q2 FY25 improvement in the crack spreads downstream benefitted from additional supply from global refin.  It declined to and easingof the oversupply situa-  companies is healthy cycapacityexpansions,accordingto tion created due to the rampant likely to remain marketing $75.2/bbl in October analysts. However, robust domestic &$73.02/bbI in capacity addition during FY19-  stable in FY26,  margins during demand for petroleum products,dri- FY24, especially in China," the analysts said H1FY25  November ven primarily by diesel, petrol and agencyhighlighted. LPG is expected to support healthy The government's earlier reduc- marketing margins during FY26. grat ed refiners will improvein FY26 While downstream companies  mated break-even cost of production tion in domestic gas allocation to According to India Ratings, the compared to the Iows seen in FY24. are expected to maintain healthy  at $40-45/bbl, Ieaving an Ebitda of CGD companies has created chal- credit profile of downstrean com-. During the firsthalf of FY25,inte- Ebitda, the country'supstream com- $20-30/bbI, it added. Ienges forthe sector. Rising demand panies is likely to remain sta ble in  grated OMCs benefitted from healthy  panies may face a decline in Ebitda  Oil prices averaged $78.7/bblin  in the CGD segment, coupled with FY26. The agencyattributes this to marketing margins, supported by due to moderating oil prices and. Q2 FY25, declining to $75.2/bbl in  dedlining administered price mech- strong domestic demand and  dedining crude oil prices, subdued reduced production from Iegacy Octoberand $73.02/bbI in Noven-  anism(APM) gas production, has Ied  healthy marketing margins, which crack spreads and stable retailprices. fields. However, the impact of low ber.Analysts expect crude prices to. to a reduced priority allocation of are expected to offset the impact of *Indian oil and gas demand is crudeoil priceisexpected to be offset.  remain influenced by geopolitical APM gas, especiallyfor CNG. compressed GRMs, resuIting in a expected to remain strong in FY26, bytheremovalof specialexciseonthe  developments,demand recovery, and Analysts see the reduced alloca- solid overall Ebitda."Petrochemical  Ieading to an expansion in refinery production of crude and anincrease  productioben targets set by OPEC. tionwillexposethe playersin the sec- (pet chem) Ebitda started improving and petrochemicaIcapacities India's in pro ductionexpected from newdis- "However, for domestic producers, tortotherisk ofmanaginglong-tem during FY25,after remaining under refinery capacty is expected to coveries,India Ratingssaid. India Ratings expects some relief supplycontracts."CGDcompanieson pressureduring FY24,on account of increase by 22% in the next two- *Upstream com panies will con- from the inpact of dedine in oil a blended basis eam an Ebitda mar- an improvementin the spreads for three years.India Ratings expects the tinue to earn healthy margins,  prices on account of the removal of  gin of 7-10 per scm, which could petrochemical products, India Rat - strong demand to be driving oil and  despite the current decline in crude windfall profit tax on crude," the reduce by 3.0-4.0/scm depending ings stated. The agency predicts that gas investments decisions in India," oil prices,as theywould remainabove.  agency noted. on their volume mix post the reduc- Ebitda for standalone pet chem play. said Bhanu Patni, associate director, $65 perbarrd.Thiswould keepsuffi- For the city gas distribution  tion in allocation of domestic gas for ersand the petchem segment of inte- corporat es, India Ratings. cient cushion in margin, with esti- (CGD) sector, return on invested CGD sector, India Ratings said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215249.png]
CHI wish list: Budget should lay emphasis on employment creation FE BUREAU GENERATING JOBS New Delhi, Janvary 5 tO boost productivity and foster inclusive growth, the Con- CosPEmXXrC federation of Indian Industry(CHI) has recommended that the gov. ernment prioritise employment generation as a central theme in Oci has the Union Budget for FY26.  The policy The CII has suggested the intro- would duction of an integrated National introduction of consolidate Employment Policy, which would anlntegated various (National consolidate various employment- employment generating schemes currently Employment -generating being implemented by multiple schemes ministries and states. The industry body has also  Cll has urged govt to called for targeted support to implement measures aimed at employment-intensive sectors increasing women's participatior such as construction, tourism and in the workforce textiles,alongside the rolloutofan  It has recommended roling internship program in rural gov- out the four labour codes ernment offices for college-edu- cated youth. "This initiative (internship) supported creches in industria would create short-term enploy- clusters, could be undertaken tc ment opportunities in govern- enhance femalelabor force partic ment offices while bridging the ipation," Banerjee said. gap between education and pro- In addition, the organisatior fessional skills, said Cll director has recommended rolling out tht  general Chandrajit Banerjee. four Iabour codes to modernis The CII has further urged the India's labour framework. government to implement mea. It also called for social securit. sures aimed at increasing women's coverage for gig and platforn participation in the workforce, workers to strengthen the cmploy which remains low. mentecosystem. "New initiatives, including the FE had recentlyreported that. construction of dormitories using framework to provide social secu CSR funds, the formalisation of rity for gig and plat form workers i. sectorslike the care economy, and  likely to be introduced earlyin th theestablishmentofgovernment- next fiscal year..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215546.png]
Auxano Cap to Delhi: Dense fog disrupts focus on new flight and train services investment areas in FY26 S SHanTHI Bengaluru, Janvary 5 Auxano Capital, AN early- stage venture capital firm,has announced its plans to dive into emerging sectors such as spacetech, carbon emission solutions,and batterytechnoI- ogy in FY26. With four invest- mentsalreadyin FY25 and two more expected by the fiscal With four investments year-end, the firm is also dou- already in FY25 and two bling down on its portfolio more expected by the with follow-on investments in Press trust Of inDiA Celsius, 0.7 notch below the few areas duringthe moming. fiscal-end, the firm is also two companies. New Delhi, Janvary 5 normal average, and the mini- The wind speed is forecast to "We invest in Indian star- doubling down on its num temperature was gradually increase to 6-8 tu ps with global scaling poten-  portfolio with follow-on FIfty-one Trains were recorded at 9.4 degrees CeI- kmph from the southeast in tial, Ieveraging technology to investments in two firms delayed and several flights re-  sius, the India Meteorological the afternoon,before decreas- address critical needs.Ourcore scheduled as dense fog Department (IMD) said. ing to Iess than 6 kmph from focus remains on fintech and enveloped the national capital The relative humidity during the northwest during the enterprise SaaS, said Brijesh enterprises, and data privacy  on Sunday moming, reducing theday ranged between 83 and evening and night. Smog or Damodaran, managing part- and fraud prevention aligned visibility to zero,officials said. 95 per cent, it said. shallow fog is likely in the nerofAuxano Capital Thefirm with DPDPAct. "Zero visibility prevailed over For Monday, the weather evening and night, it added. has aIso expanded its invest- Auxano Capital currently PaIam from 4 AM to 7.30 AM department has predicted a The maximum and minimum ment scopetoindudeindustry  manages two funds: a$25 mil- 1ST, accompanied byeasterly  generally cloudy sky with a temperatures are expected to 4.0 technologies like IoT, arti- lion Category I Angel Fund winds at 8-13 kmph, an IMD  possibility ofverylight to light settle around 18 and 11 ficialintelligence (AI), machine Iaunched in 2019 and a $50 official said. rain accompanied bythunder- degrees Cdsius,respectively. Iearning (ML), and semicon- million Category II fund intro- "Compared to Saturday's 9- storms in the moming. In a related development, the ductors.  duced in 2022.The firm plans hour zero visibility spdl, Palam The predominant surfacewind air quality in the national cap.  Aux ano is in thefinal stages to dlose theCategory I fund for experienced a relatively  is expected to blow from the  ital remained in the very poor' of closing three new deals. investments by 2025. Its shorter duration of 3.5 hours southeast at a speed of Iess category. Theseindudestartupsspecial- investment size ranges from of zero visibility on Sunday," than 4 kmphduring the morn- Delhi's 24-hour average AQI ising in licensed third-party $5 00,000 to potentially three the official added. inghours. Smog and moderate was recorded at 339,according services for Bharat, retail ana- to four times the initial fund-  The maximum temperaturein fog are likely in most places, to data from theCentral Pollu- Iytics solutions for global ing. the city settled at 18.6 degrees with dense fog expected in a tion Control Board (CPCB).

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215612.png]
Subscription models gaining Wilmar to emulate ITC traction in ride-hailing sector post its exit ANEES HUSSAIN from Adani  Bengaluru, Janvary 5 GETTING POPULAR SUBSCRiPTiOn-BASED MODeLS SUBSCRIPTION MODEL Press Trust Of inDiA are gaining popularity in the New Delhi, Janvary 5  Drivers pay a  The model online ride-hailing sector, with fixed feeto  major players like Ola, Uber and getting popular ADani wilmar (AWl), the coun- platforms instead especially inthe Rapidoreconfiguring strategies to try's Iargest edible oil company, is ofsharing a auto-rickshaw stay competitive.  adopting a strategy similar to ITC's commission  and two-wheeler Subscription models, where dri- by leveraging its core business and perride segments vers pay a fixed fee to platforms extensive distribution network to instead of sharing a commission per drive growth in its high-margin RAPIDO OLAAND UBER ride, have gained traction, especially FMCG portfolio after the Adani in the auto-rickshaw and two-  Adoption has yielded  Testing subscription frameworks group exit,accordingtosources. wheeler segments. Rapido'sadoption notableresults with the in highvolume, low-ticket Just as ITC used its strong ciga- of this model has yielded notable bike-taxi player reduced categories like auto-rickshawsto rette business toexpand,AWLis set to results. The bike-taxi player, which los ses by 45% curb driver attrition  use its dominant edible oil business tumed unicorn last year,cut it s losses  Increased operating revenue  Drivers using subscription models as a foundation for FMCG growth. by45%and increased operat ing rev- by 46% in FY24, GOV surged report earnings boosts of35-40% Following the exit, Wilnar may fur- enue by 46% in FY24.Its gross order 76%to<4,257 crore ther capitalise on this approach by Attracting more workers tothese value surged 76% to 4,25 7 crore, 20% ofGOV coming from its platforms but the approachis not introducing more global FMCG with 20% of this coming from its without contraversy brands into the Indian narket, new four-wheeler cabservices new four-wheeler cab services.  sources aware of the matter said. Rapido's success has influenced In the Decemberquarter,AWL's rivals. Ola and Uber are testing sub- decisionson taximplicationsfor sub- customers with enhanced services. FMCG business achieved a 24% scription frameworks in high-vol- scription-based modds Meanwhile, though competit ion from nic he play- year-on-year growth in volume ume, Iow-ticket categories like auto- rulings like the ones from Kar- ers remains stiff. underscoring its efforts to expand rickshaws to curb driver attrition. nataka's Authority forAdvance RuI- Onthedectrificationfront,BluS- both its food and FMCG product Drivers using subscription models ing, which taxes platfoms like mart continues to expand its EV fleet offerings. Consequently,the shareof report eamings boosts of 35 -40%, Rapido for services provided by dri- but faces challenges due to infra- food and FMCG in overall volumes attracting more workers to these vers, haveadded complexity. structure limitations. Meanwhile, increased to 20%, while its share in plat forms. However, the approach is To retain customers, platforms inter-cityEVadoption Iags withcur- total revenues rose to 9%, up from not without controversy. Prabhjeet are doubling down on Ioyalty pro- rent models unable to meet the 10% and 5%, respectively, in FY21. Singh, president of Uber India & grammes. Rapido's powerpassoffers demands of Ionger routes.Analysts, This shift mirrors the strategy South Asia, argued that subscription guaranteed discounts,while Uberhas however,renain optinistic. With low pursued byITC.* In foods, keypack- fees merely replace commissions introduced Uber One in India, and online penetration in shared mobil-  aged products such as wheat flour, under a different guise and fail to Ola has expanded its Ola Coins ity, particularly in three-wheelers, rice,nuggets, pulses, poha and sugar address core operational costs. rewards programme Premium offer- and a vast pool of untapped users,the have experienced a robust double. Regulatory clarity also remains a ings like Uber Black and OIa Prime  sector is poised for sustained growth digit growth, it had stated in a fil- hurdle.The GST Council hasdeferred Plus are also targeting high-ticket in thecoming years. ing with stock exchanges recently.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215629.png]
TWO NEW SUVS, TWO PRODUCT REFRESHES ON THE ROAD TOO  Duster key Compact EV, new to Renault's India comeback. o French carmaker's Renault I ndia, highlighted the com- IN TOP GEAR The Bigster pany's Iong-term commitment *In first EV in the country  A seven-seater SUV 2025, RenauIt India is poised to New EV to be affordable that will compete embark on a transformative jour-  Bult onthe same with Hyundai Alcazar,  ney, laying the groundwork for an platform as the Kwid, Tata Safari MG Hector excitingfuture, hestated. He added SWARAJ BAGGONKAR Kiger and Trber, it will Plus and Mahindra that the revamped Triberand Kiger  Mumbai, Janvary 5 target the sub-<10 XUV700 would be launched Iater in 2025, lakh price segment followed byan all-new SUVin 2026. REnault is PrepaRing a strong Market share Renault's market share in India  Currently occupied comeback in India with a compact has fallen significantly in recent by models like MG  Renault's market electric vehide (EV) and the next- years, droppingto 1% in FY 24 from Comet, Tata Tiago EV share has fallen  generation Duster leadingits prod- 2% in FY23, according to SIAM and Tata Punch EV significantly to below uct strategy. The Frenchautomaker, 1% by Nov FY25 data. By November FY25, its share once a dominant playerin themid-  Hyundai, Maruti dipped below 1%. The Iack of. size SUVsegment with the Duster, Suzuki, M&M, Citroen  Market share refreshed models and rising com- is planning two new SUVs, two and Kia focused on  dropped to 1%in petition have been major challenges 11-25takh segment FY24 from 2% in FY23  product refreshes and anaffordable for the company. EV forthe Indian market. Currently, Renault's presencein Renault'supcoming"A-segment New-gen five-seater Duster India's high-growth SUV market is EV" will beits first electric vehicle in  Marks Renault's retum limited to the Kiger,a compact SUV. India and caterto budget-conscious tothe highy competitive Its other models indude the entry. buyers. Built on the same platform mid-size SUV segment Ievel hatch back Kwid andtheTriber, as the Kwid, Kiger and Triber, this. a multi-utility vehicle competing  To take on market compact EVwill target the sub-10 wit h Maruti Suzuki Ertiga. leaders like Hyundai Creta. Lakh price segment, which is cur- Kia Seltos & Tata Curvv Analysts said with theintroduc- rently occupied by models like MG tion of an affordable EV and new Comet, Tata Tiago EV and Tata SUVs, Renault aims to reverse its Punch EV. While other automa kers. The new-generation five-seater French carmaker is planning the. declining fortunes in India. The like Hyundai, Maruti Suzuki,Mahin- Duster marks Renault's return to Bigster, a seven-sea ter SUv thatwill strategic focus on expanding its dra & Mahindra, Citroen and Kiaare the highly competitive mid-size competewith Hyundai Alcazar,Tata  portfolio while addressing gaps in focused on EVs priced between <11 SUV segment, where it will face Safari, MG Hector Plus and Mahin- high-demand segments reflects the Lakh and R25 lakh, Renault's market leaders such as Hyundai dra XUV7 00. brand's renewed efforts to regain approachpositionsituniquelyinthe Creta, Kia Seltos and Tata Curvv. In anote on Sunday,Venkataram relevancein a dynamic and com- entry-Ievel EV'space. In addition to the Duster, the Mamilapalle,managing director of petitive market,they added.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215655.png]
Tighter anti-spam norms in a month MOuMiTa bAkshI ChaTTerJee ance companies or other service New Delhi, Janvary 5 STRONG SIGNAL  Tighter regulations on providersJtodifferentiate t hen from curbing spam, new promotional calls. Currently, both Tighter regulat ions on curb- consultation examining an types of calls arebeingrouted under ing spam as wdIas new consultation authorisation framework for 140 series, which will henceforth be examining an authorisation frame- telemarketers also used onlyfor promotional calls. work fortdenarketersareexpected expected Lahoti said the regulator will in coming weeks,saidTrai chairman  Rethinkruled out on rule firm up its recommendations on Anil Kumar Lahoti Traiwill al so start mandating service millimetre wave spectrum band a pilot this month to on board paper-  providers to offer separate (auction of spectrum in 37-37.5 based and past permissions given by  Traito launch a pilot this month special tanff vouchersfor GHz, 37.5-40 GHz and 42.5-43.5 customersfor receiving commercial to onboard paper-based and past voice calls and SMS GHzbands)in about amonth'stime communicationsontoitsdigital dis- permissions given by customers  Toinitiate a massive and also bring out a consultation tributed Iedger technology plat- onto the digital system rehaul ofits IT system for paper on backhaul spectrum by fom. This process in the Iong-run  Inthe long run,the process to March thisyear. rationalisation and wouldindudescrubbingand verify- "Anotherthing which we will be include scrubbing and verifying reduction in multiple ing customers' current validity and users'current validity and offering instances of filings by telcos, working on is the digital consent offering opt-outs to those keen on it. other industry stakeholders acquisition.Although the provision opt-outs tothose keen on it Trai has also ruled out any for this exists in the regulation rethinkonits latest regulation that (TCCC PR), the practical constraint mandates service providers to offer IT system, a move, it expects, would 2025 are recommendations on Trai's 2025 to-do list aIso has been the Iegacy consent... separate special tariff vouchers  Iead to rationalisation and reduction satellite communications spectrum indudes framing recommenda-  because there are volumes of con- (STV) for voice calls and SMS. in multiple instances of filings by - arguablyone of the most keenly tions for network authorisation,  sent which have been acquired on Lahoti said whileconsumers can telecom companies and other watched events in a high-stakes new authorisation framework for  paper or reside in the past systems beencouraged to usedata,theycan- industry stakeholders. Deloitte  game involving telcos like Jio and broadcasting, and revamp of of principal entities,the challenges not be"compdled" to doso. whichhasbeen ropedinas aconsuI- Airtel on one side and Elon Musk's  national numbering plan for fixed has been about how to take those Trai's focus istoprotect notonly tant ison thevergeof submittingits Starink pitted on the other. line, while work will continue on consents onboard to the DLT, the interest oftheindustry,but also report on revamp of its IT systems. Lahoti declined to comment on  combating and curbing spam calls because you cannot completelydis. the interest of the consumer, who Trai will thereafter appoint an the specifics or timeline for redease  and pesky messages. cardthem, Lahotisaid.  must havetheoption to payonly for agencyfortherevampandtheentire of the recommendation except to Trai is in the process of opera- Trai plansto work with all stake- Services they need, he said. exercisewill be prioritised and con- say"all comments are being exam- tionalisingsystem of separate160  holders to find aworkable solution,  The telecom regulator is also all pleted this year, Lahoti said. ined on th eir merits and we will take  series for service or transactional calls to cnsure the processdoesnot cause On Trai's list of nriorities for a balancedview". Iorincipalentities(saybanks.insur- anydisruntions. -PTI

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215716.png]
Renee looks to end this fiscal with up to 400-cr topline AYANTI BERA Bengaluru, Janvary 5 BRAND-BUILDING InTHE CROWDEDmarket ofbeauty  Doubles revenue from operations to 2191.7 crore and colour cosmetics brands, direct- to-consumerstartup Renee Cosmet- in fourth year of business ics is expecting to doubleits revenue  But losses widened 88% to to <350-400 crore bythe end of this 61.5 crore dueto over fiscal.Thestartup'sgrowthcomeson 2100 crorein advertising theback ofa 10-11%annual growth and promotional expenses ratein India's$20-billionbeautyand. personal care market, which is the  Neariy  Plans to fast est in the world, as per areport by profitable in increase Redseer and Nykaa. Q3 but to take  store/kiosk In FY24, Renee Cosmetics man-  another fiscal count to aged to do uble its revenue from oper- to show about 50 next ationsto<191.7 crore in its fourth full-year year, fromthe yearof busines,whileIoseswidened  profitability current 17 88%to61.5 crore,mainly because  ofover 100 croreofadvertising and  promot ional expen ses. "Lossesmayhavegrown because of investments in our brand-cre-. ation process. Our expenses were COfOUNDO, not related to direct sales but more. RENDE related to content creation,market- ing and growing offline channels. FY24 was more like a foundation Lossesmayhave  year for us," co-founder Ashutosh gorninresbecause Valani told FE. ofinvestmentsinour He added that the company is brand-creation process nearly profitable in Q3 but will take another fiscal to show full-year prof- itability. "In October,we had about 38 crorein revenue,itwas<35 crore in November and we are on our way an intent to buy, Valani noted. tohitting<38-40croreinDecember. The companywas founded byfor- At thiskind ofvolume, itisdifficult to mer Beardo co-founders Priyank make Iossesanymore, headded. Shah and Valani and actress Aashka To expand the offline reach of its Goradia Goble. It has so far raised products, the company plans to $48.5 million from investors such as increase the number of its stores or Evolvence India, Tidal CapitaI and  kiosks toabout 50 next year,fromthe. Edelweiss,among others current 17.To be sure,it still get s 65% Renee competes in a crowded  of its revenue from online channels colour cosmetics market with the - e-commerce, quickcommerce and likes of Sugar Cosmet ics, Insight Cos- its website --, among which sales  metics and Swiss Beauty, as well as from quick commerceappsgenerate Iong-standing brands such as May. about 10% of it stopline. belline and Lakme. "We are not very heavy on EBOs Moreover,new-age brands such because weareasub-500 brand. We  as Mamearth and Plum, which are don't think that this model is sus- primarily in the skin and hair care tainable for us.Sowe open our kiosks segment,havealsoentered the colour inpremiummallsand airportswhere cosmetics segment recently but thereis a lot of footfall of peoplewith haven't seen nuch success

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215741.png]
Startups turn to Debt MFs may get tax relief.. Specialty steel PLI window reopens today revenue-based  SeparateLy, the industry 5.5%. Thus, the real income has sought alignmentin hold- TAX TALES earned by the debt fund  ing periods while calculating  investors is only 1.5%, accord- THE PLI SCHEME hasattracted tive of around 2775 crore is financing LTCG for gold-based invest- ince Apri1 1, 2023. industry  ing toAmfi. investment commitments of expected to be released forpro. ments such as gold exchange jains on de! Feves that indexation According to sources, the  27,106 crore,direct employ-  ductiondonein 2023-24. traded funds (Errs), gold are taxed at the inyestor's government may amend the ment of 14,760 and estimated Earlier the government had.  m utual funds, sovereign gold neutraiserofthe impact Finance Act to consider debt production of 7.90 million reopened the application win: Among notable benefI- Capital Labs. Das, a finance bonds, and physical gold. Cur- irrespective of the of inflation MF units as "securities" and tonne of specialty steel. As of dowfor a second time in the P CIARIEs are brands like veteran,believes competition rently, gold MF and physical not as"special mut ual funds" November 2024, companies. in the RBF spacewill intensify Smoor Chocolates, Imperio  gold dassify under LTCG on a so that long-terminvestments have already invested 18,300 goods. The PLI schemewas first Restaurants,and IDC Kitchen, in 2025 as interest rates holding period of over 24 e to the chang  can benefit from the same tax crore and generated over 8,660  announced in 2020 and then which have utilised RBF for  decline and venture debt play. months,and therest on a hold- rate of 1 2.5% as listed bonds. employments. initiatives such as launching  ers and commercial banks ing period of more than 12 Anurag Mittal, head of The productscovered bythe It has so far received 764 appli- investments in debt MFS new restaurants or cloud become more active. months. pror6Apr12023.1ost fixed income at UTI MF, said scheme are coated or plated cations. Of the total outlay of kitchens. "Interest rates are coming Since April. 1, 2023, capital that fixed income as an asset steel products, high strength 1.97 Iakh crore, 9,721 crore While venture debt -- typ- down, which willlead tomore ionadvantage  class has a long way to go in.  in incentives has been claimed ically reserved for venture- competition. Venture debt the investor's income tax (I-T) India, but the bond market rails, alloy steel products and under nine sectors till FY 2023- backed startups - remains and bigger commercial banks slab rate, irrespective of the Iacks reasonable maturity st eel wires, and elect rical steel. 24. The actual investment of Iarger in scale, with an esti- will play a larger role, and holding period, which has and depth. "That's why it is The five year period of the 21.46 Iakh core has been mated $900 million in invest- resultedin increased tax liabil- E existing players will need to  important to encourage retail scheme is from 2024-25 to realised till August 2024 under ments in 2024, RBFisrapidly offer more competitive pric- itiesfordebt M Finvestors.Pre-  investors to invest in profes- 2030-31.In2024-25,anincen- these schemes. growing. Collectively, Velocity ing, Das noted. viously, LTCG on debt M Fwere sionally run debt funds, he "GetVantage ind.  have While RBF platforms cur- taxed at 2 0% with indexation said. deployed around 1,000  indexation benefit on long Neeraj Agarwala, partner, Ketan Parekh... rently manage a sm aller asset benefit or 10% sans indexa- Debt funds are defined as crore since their inception in base compared to venture tion, and short-term capital those with 35% or less of term capital gains from debt Nangia & Co, said, While the 2019-20. debt, their ability to cater to  gains (STcG) (holding period their assets under funds in respect of all invest-  ministry's intention was tax B2B SaaS companies also  non-venture-backed startups up to three years)were taxed at  ments in debt funds made up simplicity, withdrawingindex- HIS LOW PROFILE in the first.  impounded 265.77 crore in turned to RBF in significant management in domestic and SMEs has made them 1-T sIab rates. Debt funds are to March 31, 2023. ation benefit for debt MF inad- fewyears was completelyincon- numbers. Velocity earmarked indispensable. The model's  defined as those with 3 5% or equities The MF industry believes vertently introduced tax trast with Mehta's lifestyle.  manages to capt ure the invest - 300 crore for Saas startups appeal lies in its flexibility, Iess of their ass ets under man- that indexation is not a tax uncertainty. Reinstating it But then,his famous Millen- ing community's imagination in 2024, while GetVantage speed, and alignment with agement in domestic equities. relief but a neutraliser of the would not only restore investor  nium bash in 2000, which - Salgaonkar being the latest Iaunched a 2250-crore fund revenue cydes, makingit par- However, due to the sector, the government rein- impact of inf lation, and apply- confidence but also promote attracted film stars, software case -- isa telling storyaboutthe For th the sector. Efficient Capi- ticularly attractive in uncer- changes introduced in the July troducedtheindexation bene-  tax equality among various ing the new rates retrospec- czars and even diamond mer- dark side of Indian stock mar- tal Labs, focused on the South tain economic climates. 2024 Budget, investments fit for LTCG for propertiespur- tively can be detrimental to financial instruments." chants,puthim in focus.Therest kets. But it is also sad commen- Asia-Us Saas corridor, dou- As equity funding gradu- made in debt M Fs prior toApril chased by resident individuals investor confidence and deter Accordingto thelatest Am fi is history. This time, he is tary on the regulations. In the bled its disbursals last year, ally recovers andinterest rates 1, 2023, also Iost the indexa-  before July 23,2024. new investors from entering data, total assets under man- accused of collaborating with US, former Nasdaq chairman originating more than $70  ease, the dynamics of startup  tionadvantage. The Association of Mutual capital markets through M Fs agement (AUM) for debt funds Rohit Salgaocar, a Singapore-  Bernie Madoff was arrested million in financing between The Budget for FY25-- pre- Funds in India (Amfi) has as well as the existing ones to stood at 16.86 lakh crore, based Indian descent, for within a day after his Ponzi Q12023 and Q22024. However, analysts said that  sented on July 23,2024 -- had requested the government to make further investments, while those of gold ETFs were ex ploitinginsider information sc heme wasreported byhissons "These companies are rem oved indexation benefits revisit the withdrawal of said Amfi. 744,244.82 core as of  relatedtotmdes bya majorUs-  in January 2009. In Iess than six Ieveraging RBF to break into itself as a vital alternative for for LTcG tax for all asset  indexation on Iong term debt Over the past 3-5 years, November 30.As of November based fund house for illegal  months, he was handed a 150. and expand within US mar- growth-focused startups, classes, including that of  investments and restore the debt funds have given ret urns 30, 2022, debt fund AUM was  profits. In its interim order,the year sentence. In India, Parekh kets, said Kaustav Das, co- cementing its role in the bonds. But inAugust,following status quo ante by amending of around 7%, while the infla- 12.57 Iakh crore and gold regulator has debarred the two continues to find new ways to founder and CEO of Efficient broader fundingecosystem.  a backlash from the real estate thetax lawsre-introducingthe  tion has been hovering around ETFs were 220,832.77 crore. along with 20 others,as well as  nanipulate markets.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215815.png]
POSTS HIGHEST EVER REVENUE FOR Q4 Foxconn sales beat view on Al demand REuTERS STRONG SHOW Taipei, Janvary 5  Revenue for Apple's biggest  For smart Former Greek Taiwan's foxconn, the iPhoneassemblerjumped consumer world's Iargest contract elec- 15.2% to $64.72 billion electronics, PM Simitis tronics maker, beat expecta- which includes tions to post its highest-ever iPhones, there dies at 88 revenue for the fourth quar- was "roughly ter on continued strong Aattish" year- demand for artifical intelli-  on-year REUTERS gence (AI) servers. growth Athens, Janvary 5  Revenue for Apple's biggest iPhone assembler jumped The FORMERGREEKPRIMEMinis- 15.2% to T$2.13 trillion  company will ter Costas Simitis, who ushered ($64.72 billion), Foxconn said the countryinto the European report its full in a statement on Sunday. fourth-quarter Union'ssingle currencyin 2001, It was also ahead of aT$2.1 earnings on died on Sundayaged 88 at his trillion LSEG Smart Estimate,  summer house in the Pelopon- March 14 which gives greater weight to nese."Withsadnessand respect, forecasts from analysts who I bid farewell to Costas Simitis,a aremoreconsistentlyaccurate. the month. The company, formally worthy and noble political Robust AI server demand "In the first quarter of called Hon Hai Precision opponent, but also the Prime  Ied to strong revenue growth 2025,overall operations have Industry, did not elaborate. It Minister who accompanied for its cloud and networking gradually entered the tradi- does not provide numerical Greece in its great national products division, said Fox- tional off-season, Foxconn forecasts. steps, Greek Prime Minister conn, whose customers said of its outlook for the cur- Foxconn's shares jumped Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in a include AI chip firm Nvidia. rent quarter. 76% Iast year, outperforming statement. The government For smart consumer elec- "Even wit h record high rey. by far a 28.5% rise for the proclaimed four days of mourn- tronics,   which  includes enue in the fourth quarter of broader Taiwan market. They ingand said his funeral will beat iPhones, there was "roughly 2024, the sequentiaI perfor- closed down 0.8% on Friday the state's expense, Greck state flattish" year-on-year growth, mance of the first quarter will ahead of the revenue data news agencyreported. it said. reach roughly sinilar Ievels  release,compared witha 0.3% Simitis,a lawprofessoranda Total revenue in December that are average to the past  gain forthe benchmark index. refomist, assumed Ieadership alone reachedT$654.8 billion, five years; compared with a Thecompany will reportits of the PAsOK socialist partyin up 42.3%yearon yearandthe year ago,it should show signif- full fourth-quarter earningson 1996 and was prime minister second-highest ever IeveI for icant growth" March14. until 2004.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215850.png]
WIDELY-ACCEPTABLE PRICING MODEL FOR RETAIL NPAs NOT AVAILABLE Challenges mount for ARCs as retail bad loans swell SACHIN KUMAR PERFORMANCE OF ARCs making the cost of recovery efforts Mumbai, Janvary 5 disproportionately high forARCs,"  Mar 2022  Mar 2023  Mar 2024 # ARCs are said a senior officiaI witha private Asset RecOnstruction Com- (in < Iakh cr) ARC.*Locatingandcontactingindi- structuredto PANIES (ARCs)arefacing new chal- 10.25 handle vidual borrowers, especially in cases Ienges with the rise of retail non- of loandefaults,can be challenging. .29 68 large, complex performing assets (NPAs). While corporate requiring extensive groundwork ARCs have a proven track record in loan portfolios andIegaI procedures. resolving corporate NPAs, they are 977 8 "Resolving retail NPAs requires 2.04 finding it increasingly challenging 2  Experts say 2 sophisticated data analytics and to handleretail bad loans. data analytics borrower profiling to prioritise Absence of a widely-accepted 500 canpay a recovery efforts. Many ARCs lack pricing model for retail NPAs, high Total dues Secunty receipt SR transformative the advanced technological infra- transaction costs, difficulty in asset acquired (SR) issued role in resoving outstanding structure needed to analyse retail valuation and limited ability to retail NPAs borrower behaviourand repayment Source: RBI directly engage with borrowers at a patterns," said a senior PSB official. granular level pose challenges in Experts say data analytics can effective resolutionof retailstressed Ioans, coupled with uncertainties in microfinance Ioans worth 355 play atransformativerolein resolv- assets. One of the major hurdles recovery, makes it challenging to crore. In November, Ujjivan SFB sold ing retail NPAs. By Ieveraging ARCs are facing is the absence of a determine a fair price." its stressed Ioan portfolio worth advanced aIgorithms and machine standardised and widely acceptable This pricing gap creates a dis- 270 crore toanARC. Ieamingmodels,ARCs can identify pricing model for retail NPAs. connect between banks Iooking to ARCs are typically struct ured to patterns in borrower behaviour, "The early offshoot of stressin offload retail NPAsand ARCswilling handle Iarge, complex corporate segment borrowers based on risk unsecured retail is visible and likely to acquirethem,he said. Ioan portfolios. Managing a Iarge  and prioritiseaccounts with higher to grow further. Unlike corporate Several banks have announced volume of small retail Ioans recovery potential. NPAs, where valuation models are plans to sell retail NPAs to ARCs. requires di fferent operational capa- "ARCsshouIdinvest in advanced based on financial statements,col- IndusInd Bank said Iast month it bilities, including robust technol- data analytics and AI-driven solu- Iateral and future cash flow poten- would sell over 1,500 croreworth. ogyinfrastructure, a large network tions to streamlineborrower profil - tial, retail N PAs Iack similar met- of retail bad Ioans, comprising more ofrecovery agents and expertise in ing and recovery strategies. These rics, said Hari Hara Mishra, CEO of than 1 million microfinance consumerdebt management. tools can help reduce operational the Association of ARCs in India. accounts, to ARCs. Utkarsh SFB "Individual retail loans are typi- costs and improveefficiency in deal- "The fragmented nature of these announced selling  unsecured cally smaller than corporate loans, ing with retail NPAs, said Mishra.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215908.png]
SAT gets new member, 2nd bench likely AKshata gorDe the wait for additional benches has Mumbai, Janvary 5 AT A GLANCE stretched over eight years, he said.  Shefali Shankar,seniorassociateat THE MINISTRY OF Finance(MoF) has  This move comes amid rise in Jo by Mat hew &Associates,said,"Right appointed justice Mayank Kumar cases pending with the tribunal, now, onebench is just not sufficient.  Jain, a former Allahabad High Court with sources hinting at the There is an absolute need for two  judge, as a judicial member of the formation of a 2nd bench soon benches in SAT as Iots of cases are Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). pending,with the pace ofcase dispos-  Currenty, the   SAT hears appeals  Thismove comes amid arise in cases als also being slow.' SAT operates against orders from pending with the tribunal, with Concernsremain that just ice Jain withthree Sebi, Irdai, PFRDA sources hinting at the format ion of a  maysimply becomeareplacement for members, as well as stock second bench soon. an outgoing member -- the tenure of which limits it to exchanges and Currently,theSAToperateswith technicaI memberMeera Swarupwill a single bench depositories Justice Mayank Kumar Jain three members, which limits it to a end in March, said sources. If her singlebench. Sebi's rules pemit for- tenure is not renewed, theremaynot mation of multiple benches, each stitute the required benches," said finance minister Arun JaitIey in beanadditional bench. requiring at Ieast one judicial and SumitAgrawal, partnerat Regstreet 2016, but little progress has been "As one member is appointed, one technicaI member.A case has LawAdvisors. madesince. the tenure of another often ends, been made for adding another *It seemslikelythat there willbea "The persistent delays in estab- perpetuating a cyde of vacancies. bench for years due to rising num- new notification for another SAT lishing additional benches have not The recent appointment of justice ber of cases. bench soon,whichshould resolve the only hindered case resolution, but Mayank Kumar Jain as a judicial *The absence of additional SAT  issue of heaps of pending cases with aIso undermined the efficiency of  member offers a glimmer of hope benches has Ied to a substantial thetribunal,"a source said. India's financial markets,"Agarwal for the establishment of an addi- backlog of cases, as the shortage of The proposal for a second bench  said Despite pushes from the chief tionalbench," saidAgrawal, aformer members makes it difficult to con- was first announced by former just ice of India and finance ministers, Sebi official.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 215957.png]
H-1B VISA ROW AND F-1 VISA How it may impact Indian students o H-1B pertains to skilled professionals in STEM fidds sustains opportunities. This foreign professionals demand could limit the extent of working in the US, visa restrictions overtime. F-1 visa and OPT while F-1 visa is for OPTis short for Optional Practi- foreign students cal Training, a 12-month work authorisation available to F-1inter-  PROF RAJ SINGH national students who have been full-time students for at Ieast two consecutive semesters and plan to THE PROpOSED visa restrictions seek employment in theUSin their  undertheupcoming DonaId Trump fields of study.Whilethereis no talk administration could make it more about F-1 visas as of now, changes challenging for Indian profession- in visa rules could also affect Indian als to work in the US. During the stu dents'accessto OPTinternships, previous Trump administration PHOt Q Us Eha Assy eN aNXA a stepping stone for gaining work (2017-20),strictervisa policies had Universities aiming for According to US ments from China  experience in the US.Thesehurdles a majorimpact on Indian ITprofes- diversity might priori- State Department, have been dedining. emphasise the importance of. sionals (a large percentage of H-1B tise other applicant there were 331,602 According to the adaptabilityand strategic effortsby visa holders). Companies like TCS, categories,  further United States Depart-  Indian students to strengthen their Indian students in Infosys, and Wipro were compelled increasing challenges ment of State, there  aca demic and professional profiles 2023 (23% increase to hire more locally in the US,Iead- for Indian students. were 331,602 Indian to remain competitive. ingtohigheroperational costs.This. Additionally, delays from 2022), students in 2023, a Indian professionals and stu-  un certain ty prom pted many Indian could discouragelast- surpassing China's 23% increase from  dents have alternative opportuni-  professionals to explore opportuni- minute applications, 277,398 students 2022,  surpassingd ties. For those returning to India, ties in countries like Canada and potentially reducing China's 277,398 stu-  many are fuelling the country's Australia. However, this time, there the numberof submis- dents. The most popu- start-up ecosystem and contribut- ishopefora more Ienient approach, sions. Given that US Iar universities for ingtoits expanding domestic mar- aIthoughit remainsto be seenwhat universities rely on international  Indian students are NewYork, Johns ket. Nations with more relaxed will be the H-1 Bpolicy reforms that students for diversity and tuition Hopkins,and Carnegie Mellon. immigration policies, Europe's wel- are being talked about. income, these institutions might Indian professionals and stu- coming stance, and prospects in Any modifications to visa poli- push for policy adjustments to dents, particularly in SrEM fields, AfricaofferadditionaIpathwaysfor cies could present obstades. For counteract such effects. remain highly regarded in the US Indian talent Growing acceptance  instance, reduced visa availability economy and education system, of remote work globally further Indian students might Iead to bottlenecks, espe-  driving demand fortheir expertise. enablesskilled Indian professionals cially during peak application peri- Indian students playa vital role Indian immigrants in sectors like to collaborate with US-based com-  ods, causing Ionger waiting times in supporting US universities,con- technologyand healthcarealso play  panies without relocating. for processing. Indian applicants, tributing heavily to their revenue. a key rolein fostering innovation being the largest group of interna- Despite stricter regulations, the and economic growth. AIthough Authorisspokesperson, JAIN Online, tional candidates,could face inten- number of Indian student enrol- strictervisa policies may introduce and vice-chancellorfAIN(Deemed- sified competition forlimited slots. ments has been rising, while enrol- difficulties,the continued need for to-be-University), Bengaluns

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220015.png]
Using partnerships, AI to enhance presence in India Leaming company Pearson has educational institutions,andvia started using artificia! WiTH BANk PO EXAmS, that we reach out to the faculty intelligence (Al)to translate some WEVEEXPANDEDOUR to upskill them. of its international blockbuster tit ies into Indian Iangunges. How popular is the Pearson "India is Pearson's largest higher WHICHALREADY Test of English (PTE) in India? educat ion market after the US INcluDes Neet,it Jee, The PTE is risingin and Canada, and we are doubling UgC,And upSC.  popularity stakes. In India,over down on ou rinvest ment here," 1.8 million English proficiency said Ebrahim Matt he us, senior tests wereconducted in 2023 VP, Intemational Higher How bigis India for Pearson? specifica lly for opport unities to Education, Pearson. Rece ntly in It's thethird-largest market study,immigrate, or work India to forge ne w partnerships after the US and Canada, but the abroad.AImost all universities in with edtech companies and market is priority not only Australia, Canada, and over educat ional institutions, he told because of size, but also because 3,300 universities worldwide FE's Vikram Chaudhary that, of potential We introduced our induding Oxford, Harvard using the powerofAland top-90 global titIes in India, with Business School, Yale, Stanford, partnerships, Pearson is making ourAI study tools. With AI, we University of British Columbia, global books more suited to the can personalise Ieamingat scale. among others,accept PTE Indian martet, both in terms of Another tool we have is Academic scores. context and content Ercerpts:  Ieveraging Gen AI to help Why did you partnerwith Why are you using GenAI to educators Veranda Race for bank PO translate Pearson's global create exam prepara tion? books into Indian languages? assessments Whilewe are into the test We are not simply translating  on the fly, to  preparation market, an area books usingAI, but are making make their missing out was bank these more suitable for Indian lives easier.We probationary officer(PO) prep readers. For example,Market ing form direct series. Now,it's estimated that Manage ment by Kotler is a gold relations with over 3 million students in India standard in management.  prepare for the bank PO studies,and the newest edition examinations annually, so that's wehave released includes a bigmarket We have created references from India - such as (with Chennai-based Veranda) a the case study of Nestle's Maggi hybrid test preparation content  in India, and how they brought for bank PO exam, which backthe brand after the noodle indudes eight 8 books and fiasco in 2015-16.We have also digital assessments, and is worked on how Mercedes-Benz designed with mock papers that India used Retail of the Future' dosdy simulate the entrance Strategy to increase car sales. exams for POs and clerks But transla tions are also conducted by IBPS and SBI. With happening. We areworking on this, we have expanded our test translating Conceptua! Physics -- preparation portfolio, which one of theworld's most revered alreadyincludes NEET, IIT JEE tit les - into Indian Ianguages. HGC, and upsc.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220036.png]
'The risk-reward potential looks better in larg ge-caps at this stage' In a significant part of the large-  benefit s the sectors that are equity market valuations, these  opportunities, and structural capsec tor, the val uationshave small-cap and mid-cap funds not only help manage the  growth in hospitals and become reasonable and grouth dominated. However, the risk- vol atility risk but also can ta ke diagnostics. While valuations, could surprise on the upside in reward potential seen sbetterin  advantage of that Also,the  especially in hospitals and FY26. Rahul Singh,chief Large-caps atthis stage. In a allocation changes are done branded generics, have risen investment officer, Equities, Tata significant part ofthelarge-cap basedon a formula which sharply, we ex pect earnings Mutual Fund,in aninterviewto sectors, the valuations have removes the emotion from momentum to continue, Sailat Neogi underlines that the  become reasonable and growth that decision. supporting these valuations cxpxctat ions on mid- and small- could surprise on the upside in and delivering compounding caps in terms ofeamings growth FY26.On the otherhand,the What are the pockets of returns. Weremain selective, are on the highier side andcould expectations on mid- and small- opportunities available now? concentrating on Iarge-cap see disappointment ifthereare caps in terms of earnings growth Weare curren tly positive on  companies with strong execution cha llenges orpersistent  are on the higher side and could  the banking and earnings potential. macro sovdoun. seedisappointment if thereare pharma/healthcare execution challenges or sectors.The banking As debt funds offer stability and What kind of asset allocation persistent macro slowdown. sectoris particularly predictable returns,what types stra tegy should a retail inve stor  Even though the capex cycle attractive from a offunds should retailinvestors Yookat in the new year? recoveryis support ive of sm all valu ation standpoint, Yook at now? Asset allocation can be 40%  and mid-caps,a staggered given that they are Given our viev on rates,we  in balanced/hybrid/multi asset approach will reduce the risk trading at a 35%  believe investors should increase funds,another 30-40% in core inherent in valuations. discount tothe Nifty50, the duration and Iook toinvest. diversified categories likelarge- which is three times in Ionger duration funds. Gilt caps coupledorlargeand mid-  How canhybrid funds offera their historical average. funds and corporate bond funds. caps and remainingin small cap/ balanced investment The recent regulatory  may be preferred for upcoming sectoral funds (banking) approach? actions and the Reserve rate cyde. healthcare). However,it aIso By allocating funds in Bank of India's hawkish depends on the investor's risk equity and debt based on stance notwithstanding, Inflows intothematic funds appetite and goals to be achieved. weanticipategrowth have cooled in November. drivers for banks in 2025.  Should inve stors now take a LONGER DURATION Should investors now take a However, we prefer private cautious approach to invest in staggered approachtoinvest in O. banks over their public sector these funds? select mid-and small -caps? CORPORATE BOND undertaking (PsU) peers due to Yes. All thethemes like Mid- and small- caps are FUNDS MAY BE their superior profitabilityand  defence,manufacturing, capital tradingat premium tolargecaps.e historically low valuation gap goods, powerand real estateare PREFERREDFOR Some of that is justified by the compared to thelatter. becoming more stock specific UpComing rate CyCLe nature of the economic growth In the pharma/healthcare  now,which can be better that has been led by the sector, we see ablendof cyclical addressed through the core investment cycle recoverywhich recovery, outsourcing category diversified funds.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220101.png]
A step forward, but not without concerns ARUN PRABHU The draft rules of the data protection law, if retained ARYA TRIPATHY as is, could present hurdles for implementation,  Respectively head partner, technokogy and require businesses to make expensive adjustments partner, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas Moving a step closer towards the While this emphasis on itemised menting reasonable security measures Significant data fiducaries, to be implementation of India's maiden details may help transparency and for preventing data breach, therules spec- identified by officers who will be data protection Iaw, the government accountability, it will mean that busi- ifyalistof"minimum" safeguards indud- appointed for this purpose, are required has released the draft Digital Personal nesseshaveto satisfyademanding,rigid, ing access control, Iog reports, deploy- to meet much higher requirements. Data Protection Rules, 2025, for pub- and expensive consent regime.Giventhis ment of encryption tools,tokenisation, These include annual impact assess- lic consultation. background,entitiesmaybewell advised  masking, and requiring fiduciaries to ments and audits, with key findings  The rulesmakean eamest attempt to to examine their existing notices, griev- contractually obligate processors to going to the DPB.  bring proceduralclarityon some building ance redress and data principal right ensure data security. Much more concerningly, therules blockslike noticeto seek consent, consent The rules prescribe a demanding, mechanismsto meet timelines for imple- seem to risk reviving two key concerns managers, retention periods for certain mentation. "one-size-fits-all" requirement for whichmany had felt were put to rest. For businesses, certain data principal rights, Substantial details about qualifica- reporting data breaches to the DPB and significant fiduciaries,the government and breach notification, but not without tions,functions,and obligationsof con-  data princpals, without regard to the may require identified data to be kept in keeping alive concerns around verifiable sent managers, who will be a very impor- hams resulting from breach.The report- India. The rules also provide for addi- parental consent, obligations of signifi- tant part of India's new data ecosystem, ing is required to be done promptly and tional rules to be specified for all entities cant data fiduciaries, exemptions, and have been provided in therules. Entities supplemented with averydetailed report inrelation to cross-border data transfers  implementation timelines, and reviving must be incorporated in in 72 hours. Given this These (currently open-ended) require-  someissues which we had hopedwere put India, have a minimum The release of the background, businesses  ments can have a mammoth impact on to rest, such as cross-border data trans- net worth, and a suitable mayneed torevisit thesuf- the operations of several platforms. Per- fers, and useof algorithms. technology platform to draft rules marks an ficiency of their existing haps even more concerningly, the rules Thelong-await ed rules,published fol- apply for registration as a important step measures around report- also prescribe open-ended "additional Iowing much discussion and inter-min- consent manager.On get- towards recognising.  ing to see if they can meet due diligence"fortheuseof"algorithmic istry con sultation,will be open for public ting registration, they will the demanding new software" by significant data fiduciaries. enforcing, and comments for at Ieast 45 days. Once act as"data blind interme- requirements. Greater dlarityon each of the above, finalised, certain parts of the rules diaries" that enable data strengthening data Another subject for  dunng the consultation process on the (largely, dealing withthe Data Protection principals to grant (or protection norms entities to worryabout is rules, will be very helpful. Board orDPBJand corresponding parts of reject) consents sought by "verifiable consent" from Thereleaseofthe draft rulesmarksan  in India the DPA, will come intoforce upon their data fiduciaries who are parents for processing important step towards recognising, publication.lherest of therules wilIcome onboarded with consent children's data. Before enforcing, and strengthening data pro- into force ona laterdate, to be specified in managers. They are required to act on dealing with children's data, entities tection norms in India. Where retained thefinal rules. behalf of individuals and help exercise must reliably verify age and identity of as is, they could potentially present hur. The Rules require that notice for data protection rights, while avoiding  parents based on already available data,  dles for implementation, require busi- consent be for specfied purposes any conflict of interest. Defaults by con- or da ta provided voluntarily, or through nesses to make ex pensive adjustments, through adistinct document that is eas. sent managers could result in cancela- services of a government authorised and may al soresult in consent fatiguefor ily understandable.This noticemust,at tion or suspension of registrations, in body that maintains virtual tokens data principals. Given this background, the least, provide descriptions of per- addition tothefinesundertheDPA The induding DigiLocker service providers. effective public consultation and dia- sonal data, the specified purpose of pro- details provided are timely, but kick-  This seems to come with an added due Iogue is critical, and businesses should cessing, list goods or services and use starting consent activities will continue diligence obligation to vet the authen- use the period Ieadingup to implemen- cases to be enabled through processing, to dependoninteroperabilitystandards ticity of the data provided for verifica- tation of theruleswisely,both to provide  and provide clear means for exercising that are imminent. tion purposes, which maybe financially their comments and to prepare for the data principal rights. Underlining theinportanceof imple- onerous,especially for small entities.  implementation of thefinal rules.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220121.png]
O fROm PLATe TO pLOUGH 2025 OFFERS A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY POLITICALLY FOR THE MODI GOVTTO OVERHAUL THE SYSTEM Reform agriculture ET ME START by wishingread- 4 Iakh crore.Add to it the Pradhan ers of this column a very Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM- happy, peaceful, and prosper-  Kisan)and Mahatma Gandhi National ous new year. Rural Employment Guarantee Act What could I wish for Indian agricul- ASHOK GULATI (MGNREGA), and one wouId easily ture, a subject that has been ny lifdong cross <5 Iakh crore out of a Budget of passion and commitment? My dream Distinguished professor, ICRIER about 245 Iakh crore (FY25) All these would be to see vibrant and sustainable need to be rationali sed, and one can agriculture which is clim ate-re silient, easily save at Ieast <1 lakh crore that increases productivity, brings prosper- can beinvested backin agriculture and ity to peasants, and, above all,improves that in the Iast three years or so, there is models that make our development rural areas for building basic infra. the real wages of farm workers who are awide gap in thegovernment estimates process more inclusive. So far, we have structure, ranging from roads and literallyat the bottom of the economic of wheat production and what the pri- not been very successful in that. And water harvesting to upgrading agri- pyramid.It is only by raising productiv- vate trade believes. No wonder wheat whenwe fail to do it,we lean towards the mandis and rural haats. ity that India can rein in food inflation, prices have been under pressure, and revdi culture of freebies, which runs But how do we rationalise these whichhas been playing spoilsport Iately. governm ent stocks meagre.Thegovern- throughall political parties -- beit in the  mega subsidies and so-called welfare Vegetable inflation, at 29% (and potato ment is trying to supress prices by  name of Iadli behna or ladli ladki, as was programmes? The fertiliser subsidy inflation of 67%) in November 2024, releasing wheat at about 2,300/quin- thecasein Maharashtra's recent Assem- needs tobe merged with PM-Kisan and has humbled the Reserve Bank of India tal in theopen market operations,while bly dections. Even now, the Aam Aadmi given to farmers directly on a per (RBI), not allowing it to reduce the repo the minimum support price for the  Party is promising to give 18,000 a hectare basis, while fertiliser prices ate.Thatis simply tragic. forthcoming season is 2,450/quintal, monthto pujaris and granthisif they are need to be deregulated and freed The India Meteorological Depart- and the economic cost to the Food Cor- voted back to powerin Delhi. India can-  Micro-managing prices for each urea  ment has madeit clear that 2024 was poration of India is about not progress with such plant, and then informally controlling the warmest year since 1901, and the R2,800/quintal. This is If India wants to doles, nay bribes, for  even di-ammonium phosphate prices temperatures were O.9oc higher in simply dumping and vot es.As honest taxpay. when in theory they are relatively free. 2024 than the Iong period average. realise the dream of anti-farmer. ers, we wonder how our sreminiscentof the socialist era of the Earlier studies by scientists of the PM Narendra Modi Viksit Bharat, we money is being frittered USSR. The timidity of successive gov. Indian Council' of Agricultural wants totransform India need to find business away. I wonder why our ernments is reflected in the fact that Research predicted that aninceasein into Viksit Bharat by Election Commission is urea prices have not been revised since models that make our temperature by 1oC ran the risk of 2047,but this cannot be silent on such Iudicrous 201 2, whileall other commodity prices development process reducing wheat output by 5%. Wheat achieved unless farmers' promises. will the have gradually risen. Thisis not helping is likely to be the most impacted by and farm workers' more inclusive Supreme Court step in to either the peasantry, productivity, or heat spikes in Februarywhen grain for-  incomes im provesignifi-  bring some order among the planet,as it is leading to inefficient  mationis taking place. cantly. We cannot have  political parties on elec- use and massive diversions. Although the Prime Minister Indiasprintingwhen its feet are made of  tion promises that are damaging our Similarly, food subsidy must be tar- released 109 varieties of various crops clay.The Periodic Labour Force Survey democracy? Most of these are a waste of  geted and given in the form of digital (includingwheat) that are supposed to  deadyshows thattherealwagesin rural taxpayers' money, who feel heIpless and coupons to be spent on, say, 20 nutri- be climate-resilient, the challenge of areas (including farm wages) have stag- cheated having paid theirdue. tious food items. The MGNREGA needs takingthem from the scientists' labsto nated and even marginally decined in Coming back to reforming agricul- to be dovetailed with agri-work and PM farmlands remains daunting. This is thelast five years.ThisshouId have been ture, politically, for the Modi govern- Awas Yojana.Thewhole system needsan because the government's agri-exten- the primary topic of constructive dis- ment at the Centre, 2025 seems a overhaul. It can be done if the Modi gov. sion network is the weakest link in the cussion in Parliament and mainstream golden chance as the parliamentary ernment is bold and remains focused.  pro duction system. mediaas it impacts thelives of millions. elections are far away. The big expen- Else, I am afraid, India will keep limping Agri- R&D as welI as agri-extension Instead, our Pariament was paralysed ditures in rural areas,induding agri- with occasional falls and injuries in its need a major boost in the coming Bud-  over a remark on Ambedkar. What a pity!. cuIture, are going from the central race to Viksit Bharat by 2047. get if Indian agricultureis to be dimate- If India wants to realise thedream of Budget. Lookat food and fertiliser sub- resilient Inthiscontext,it may benoted Viksit Bharat, we need to find business sidies. Both togetherare likely to cross Vie ws are personal

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220617.png]
DYSON PURIFIER HOT+COOL GEN1 No need to run an air purifier and 0 room heater at the same time o It heats in winter remote,you have the option to adjust placed near the centre of theroomto the fan speed,increase the tempera- maximise its efficiency. There is one and purifies indoor tureupto37 degreesCdsius,choose  thingyou need to keepinmind while autoorsleepmode,and makethefan buyingthis one. It requires a power air all year round  go a near 360-degree swivel. plug towork,so ifyourlivingroom or However, there is a catch here  bedroon does not have one, you will! NAnDAGOPAL RAJAN compared toother Dyson air puri- need to use a converter, which is not fiers I have used. While this Puri- always a good idea. It's winter time but pollution fier Hot+Cool Gen1 can be added Afterrunning theheater forover Ievels are still high due to a combi- to the MyDyson app like other 30 minutes,you can feel the room nation of atmospheric and human units, I could not see any contro!  temperature also go upgradually.In factors. But most air purifiers exac-  panel for the same. The app just the bedroom, it became pleasant erbate the winter chill by pushing shows how-tos and FAQs about enough for me to come out of the out cool drafts along with clean air. the device and Iets you buy a new comforterinthemiddleofthenight. This is where a product like the set of filters but does not let you And doremember it can blow really Dyson Purifier Hot+ Cool Gen1 can control it. This means you have to cool air too,though the swit chover make a difference, keeping the be careful about the small remote takes a fewv minutes. roon air dean and pleasant at the that comes in the box. The Dyson Purifier Hot+CooI same time. It has the trademark Since Dysonensures that cleanair Gen1 isquietunless youpushthefan design from the UK tech company is distributed across the room, the  speed to maximum.And given that with a Ioop-shaped bladeless fan placement ofthe purifier it self iscru. very few companies are as design- that throws out the cleaned air dal. Ideally, the purifier should be  focused as Dyson,the device blends sucked in by the filters at the base. in well into more livingrooms. The On the front, there is an LED dis- significant advantage of this device play that gives you a Iot of in forma- KEY FEATURES is in how it saves power, as you don't tion, frompresent PM2.5 and PM10 need torun an air purifier and room Ievels to the trend line showing an  Fuly-sealed filtration heaterat the same time if you are in improvement in air quality as the an NCRkind of situation.  Air Multipliertech, 360 purifier runs. You can also see the At 56,900, the Dyson Purifier degree oscillation temperature of the heater as well as Hot+Cool Gen1 is a premium device some animations illustrating how  Real-time LCD screen thatdoesmore thankeeptheairqul- the filterworks.  360 HEPA H13 filter, ityin yourroom palat able. But it does Butthereis just the power button activated carbon filter not make sense for those who live in onthe purfier,whichmeansyouwill warmer parts of India, even if you  5.29kg weight need to use the renote for all con- struggle with some pollution. But if trols. The remote, as with other  Estimated street price you are in a place like Delhi, this one Dyson units, attaches magnetically 256,900 can keep your room cool or warm to the top of the fan loop. On the while dleaning upthe air on the side.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-06 220820.png]
Stars who couldn't walk the talk SRIRAM VEERAE overthe weekend inthe absence Sydney, January 5. of theinjured Bumrah, triedhis best to inspire his bowling and IN THE END, just one Indian fielding unit,butfailed athisjob could get ontop ofthe dias at as a batter,through the series, the presentation cerenony of barringthattonin2nd-innings Border-GavaskarTrophy (BGT). at Perth.Anything outside off. Jasprit Bumrah,the captain and beit from back of length or full theman of the series. and wide, proved a kryptonite.  Even the man on whom the We don't know what he has trophyis partlynamed couldn't tol d the playersinside the dress- get there as Cricket Australia ing room, but one of the best had deemed that Sunil lines from the head coach Gau- Gavaskarwould presentthetro- tam Gambhir camein the post- phy onlyif India retained the attack to anextent Aided bythe perfomancecame in frontof a series pressconference. BGT. Somewhat apt end to a veryfallible batt ing unit of Aus- camera mike when he spoke "Ultimately,it's neither my dramatic, but chaotic tour. tralia,India had somehowhung about howheisn'tdoneyet,and. team nor your team, it's the The serieshad started with a. on till what would be the final how youngsters aren't still nation's team. I believethat, as! question ofwhatwould happen dayof the series with a chan ce to ready to be the captain. Unfor- said, thereare veryhonest play. if something happens to Bum- retain the BGT.e tun ately,forhim,hecouldn't rev ers in our dressing roomwho rah. Luckily for India, Bumrah On what tumed outto bethe up a worthy perfomance with  know how hungry they are and had not onlydecided toimmor- final day that dreaded question thebat and that hurt India.. whet her the team can move for- talisehimselfinto theimagina- was answered and India sans Unfortunately, the key men ward with their contribution. tion ofAustralian public with Bumrah couldn't produce that of Indian team's best perfor- But yes, as far as my question is the most enthrallingstring of mini-miracleneeded to dcfend mances seem to have come in. concerned, ny biggest respon- performances through the abelow-par162.It'ssomething front of the microphone, it has sibilityisthat Ihaveto befairto series, but also managed to that more than Australia, India to be said.Or in a team huddIe. everyone in the team. Not only inspire the rest of the bowling needs to do. Rohit Shama's best. Virat Kohli, the acting captain oneortwo individuals."

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 204954.png]
AT 6.4% IN FY25, IT WILL BE A 4-YEAR LOW: FIRST ADVANCE ESTIMATES Growth n engine loses steam PRiYANSHVERMA KEY NUMBERS Consumption and New Delhi, January 7 investment (h0A'5yp x) INDIA'S GROSS DOMESTIC product 9 11.6 8 (GDP) is set to slow down consider- FY22 0.1 ablyto register a growth rate of 6.4% 17.8 hoA'ep % in 2024-25 compared with 8.2% in FY23 16.8 Pt 2023-24, the National Statistics co nsum ption Office (NSO) said on Tuesday, releas- 6.6 Govt 4  co nsum ption ing the first advance estimates. The FY24 slowdown is on account of a decline 8 2.5 paxy  19 inve st ment in annual rates of expansion across manufacturing, 5s 16.4 FY25* 17.3 [>INSID E<] mining and I ser- 66 14.1 "First advance 16.4 vic es sectors. estimates GrowTH Boosters, However, the PLEASE year-on-year grow- Growth dynamics (At constant prices, % chg. yo-y) FY21 th rate, a four-year 2.8 PAGE 10 O h1fy25 Iow,isalso caused in FY19 FY20 24 FY23 FY25* O Growth S. 7A3 good measurebystatistical factors -- 2 3 requred in "net taxes on products" are seento H2 FY 25* GDP Primary Secondary Tertiary grow just 5.9%in FY25,compared with asteep19.1%Iast fiscal. 'Fir st advance estimates ' *To meet the frst advance estimates.  The growth in gross value added (GVA)in2024-25is seenat 6.4%,the Iation of last year's estimates, and in economic report for November.. the six years to 2024-25 (from the same as GDP; at 7.2%, GVA growth the light of indicators and data. A 6.4% growth in FY25 would  pre-pandemic period to the present) was much Iower than the headline. sourcesuptoDecember,islowerthan require 6.7% economic expansionin will bejust 4.93%. growthnumberin 2023-24. the Reserve Bank of India'sI atest pro-. the second half of the year, compared The NSO's growth estimate forthe jection of6.6%, and 6.5%forecast by with 6% in the first half. It also. Continued on Page 12 current fiscal,computed via extrapo- the finance ministry in the monthly im plies that the average growth in Related report on Page 2

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205020.png]
US giant plans to train 10 million peoplein new-agetech skills by 2030 Microsoft to invest $3 bn in its AI-first India mission AYANTI BERA and Chennai,with a fourthscheduled investments, Microsoft plans to train EXPAnSION MODE ON  Microsoft's efforts have Bengaluru, January 7 to golive in 2026. I+ . 10million people inAI skillsin India by already reached. CAWNRSEIA, CEO AND The investment is part of  Indiainvestment is CUnderAdvanta()ge. 2.4 million, 2030 as part of its Advanta(l)ge India MICROSOFTOnTUESDAY said that India,the Us giant Microsoft's broader global expan- part ofMicrosoft's programme. This initiative, part of it plans to invest $3 billion (about  sion, including $80 billion allocated  broader global aimstoensure Microsoft's Global Skills for Social  individuals, topping target Iamexdtedto 25,700 crore) in India over thenext  for AI-ready data centres in FY25, expansion Impact charter, aims to ensure equi- e accessto two years tobolsterit s doud comput- morethanhalf of which will be spent announceths table accesstoAl trainingacross urban trainingacross ing and artificial intelligence (AI)  in the Us. The expansion aligns with  Currently, it andrural areas.Microsoft's efforts have reas significant investment  infrastructure, marking its single- the strategies of other tech giants, operates three data already reached 2.4 million individu-  Iargest expansion in the countryto such as Google, which last year centre regionsin the initiative are to expand ourAzure als surpassingits initial target, with date. Chairman and CEO Satya announced a $1-billion investment  Pune, Mumbai and  women and  capacityin India Nadella made the announcement inThailand for datacentre and dloud Chennai, witha fourth 74% from tier- 74% fromtier-II and II cities. during the Bengaluru Ieg of the infrastructure. set to go livein 2026 II and III cities "India's rapid growth as an AI Microsoft AI Tour, underscoring the Microsoft's infrastructure plans innovator isunlocking opportunities techgiant's commitment tomaking  in Indiaalso extend to advancingthe nationwide," Nadella said. "Our IndiaanAI-first nation. capabilities of its AI ecosystem. form tasks such as meeting facilita- "This islike adding an as the interface for AI, investments in infrastructure and *I am excited to announce this  Nadella showcased enhancementsto  tion,real-time translation and sum- extra team mem-  making interactions  skillingreaffirm our commitment to significant investmenttoexpand our Microsoft 365 Copilot, a suite of  marisation. He urged organisations berto assist with intuitive and effec- making India AI-first and ensuring Azure capacityin India, Nadella said. autonomous AI agents designed to to build customised AI solutions tasks, Nadella tive, he said. benefits reach all, he added. Microsoft currently operates three streamline enterprise workflows.  using Copilot Studio, a Iow-codetool explained. In addition to  datacentreregionsin Pune,Mumbai Theseagents can independentlyper- for creating bespokeAl agents. "Copilot serves   infrastructure Continued on Page 7

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205034.png]
Four major paint makers in race to acquire AkzoNobel VIVEAT SUSAN PINTO DEAL BOOK Mumbai, January 7 IndgoPansand AdryBng $2.5-3 bng SOME OF THE country's top paint makers, including Berger Paints, gra5bngmaontystako JSW Paints, Indigo Paintsand Aditya Potential deal value Birla group, which forayed into the being lookedat  With 7% market share, sectorin 2024, are in therace to buy by AkzoNobel AkzoNobel is India's fourth- a majority stake inAkzoNobel India, Dutch parent largest paints maker sources have told FE. $1.2- AXLo AkzoNobel Indiaisthe country's  Rra!sAsan Pant's Berger fourth-largest paintscompanywith Paintsand KansatNerolachold an estimated market share of 7%. 1.4 bn S0X 203and 153 respxtvely Rivals Asian Paints, Berger Paints and Kansai Nerolac are estimatedto Theamount  Promoters cf AkzoNobel are have market shares of 50%, 20% interested players may looking at a possible India exit as and 15%, respectively, in the be willing to pay the competition growsin sector domestic paints market valued at 65,000crore ($7.8 billion),accord- ing to industry experts. willing to pay around half the ask- munication from our parent com- The Dutch parent of AkzoNobel ing price at 10,000-12,000 crore pany about anysuch event or nego- India, which owns a nearly 75% ($1.2-1.4 billion), sources said. tiation, the com pany said. stake in the company, has been In a note to the exchanges on CaIIs to Abhijit Roy, M D & C EO of Iooking to offload its shareholding Tuesday, Akzo Nobel India said it Berger Paints India, elicited no in the firm at a deaI valued at $2.5. could not ascertain thecorrectness response at the time of going to press. 3 billion (20, 000-24,000 crore), of the news."We have not received sources said. However, players a me any specific infarmatinn nr com. Continued on Page 7

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205105.png]
GOVTTO SET UP 1,250 DRIVER TRAINING SCHOOLS IN 2 YRS New safety features for heavy vehicles soon o Minister says need 3dt to consider limiting yRar4 fdua dls  4zdI doa Heztng el Transpert MinIsters ol a3l $txtes and 0q drivers'working hours 1ader ta. Chatrmanshl? dd Unioa Mlalsier for Koad Trand 42 Heeting of Traasport Der t C FE BUREAU I aat nn New Delhi, Janvary 7 TO PUTA checkonrisingroad acd- dents, the government is consider- ing installa tion of three new safety devices on heavy commercial vehi- cles that will stop drivers from doz- ing off at the wheel and have provi- sions for emergency braking and vehicle stability,road transport and Road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari at a meeting with highways minister Nitin Gad kari his state counterparts in New Delhi on Tuesday. Gadkari said the. said on Tuesday.. government is working towards the nationwide rollout of a scheme The devices that are expected to to provide cashless treatment to road accident victims. be made mandatoryare electronic stability control systen, emergency training schools over the next two use of recycled materials by the auto braking system and driver drowsi- years and fitness centres across the. industry, he said.The meeting also nessalert and safetysysten. The con- country for which the central gov-  discussed timelines forintroduction sultation process for theinstallation ernment will provide financial sup- of BS VII norms and the revised of these devices is on and some port of 4,5 00 crore The states will guidelines for pollution under con- inputshave come from stakeholders. not have to contribute any funds for troI cert ificates were also presented. Following the consultation then, barringland. The ministry of road transport process, a draft notification will be The centres coming up in Tier I and highways is aIso working on issued before all the details are cities would be getting support of thenationwide rollout of a scheme finalised, Gadkari told reporters upto 17.25 crore, in Tier II dties that will provide cashless treat- after a two-day meeting with the  5.5 croreandinTierIll towns <2.5 ment to road accident victims transport ministers of states. He crore. "These new schools would across the country.Thepilotsofthe also said that there was a need to help meet the shortfall of drivers. scheme are already functional and Iook at limiting the number of which stands at 2.2 million. The based on the Iearnings it will be hoursheavycommercial drivers can schoolswill be able to churn out 2.5 extended tomore states. drive to 8 hours though it has its million drivers, Gadkani said. Thescheme will coverhospit ali- Own set of challenges. To encourage a circular econony sation expenses of up to 7 days or a Around 180,000 people are in the auto sector, the minister said maximumof 1.5 lakh peraccident  killed on Indian roads annually, of that thenumber of scrappingcentres per person.All hospitals, whether which 33,000 arekilled in accidents  may cross 100 from 82 now and in government or privately owned,will where trucks are involved. some time every state would have at be covered bythe scheme.In case of The minister aIso announced a Ieast one scrapping centre. The gov- hit-and-run incidents, <2 lakh scheme for setting up 1,25 0 driver ernmentisalso looking at mandating would be given per person.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205117.png]
Economists say consumption growth estimate optimistic o Slack in urban demand persisting. Madhavi arorA, CHIEF ECONOmiSt, EmKAy gLOBAL PRIYANSH VERMA Runconsumxion!! Private consumption is. New Delhi, Janvary 7 receveaboostfrom seen remaining tepid, healthy kharif THe FiRst ADVAnCE estimates as real urban of the National Statistics Office productionand wages continue (NSO) have projected private promising to decline, final consumption expenditure prospectsfor with other (PFCE) to grow by 7.3% in FY25, B but economists feel the number is rabi'season cyclical "too optimistic", given subdued headwinds urban demand. "The main indicators of the con- sumptionso far indicate that(skewed nature of) the consumption growth is correctingsomewhatwith the pick- up in rural real wages. However,the slack in urban demand is persisting This year,the above-nomaI mon- standards; and (c) weaker exports. as indicated by commentaries from soon is seen aidingrural consump- Looking at the first advance esti. some FMCG companies and also the tionrecovery.The NSOhas estimated mates, analysts say the Indian econ- decline in imports to the tune of the agri sector'sGVAto grow 4.5%in ony remains resilient on the back of 1.3% in FY25, India Ratings and H2, upfrom 2.7% in H1 and 1.4%in the strong festive demand and steady Research (Ind-Ra) notedin areport. FY24.According to D K Joshi, chief improvement in economicactivity, "The PFCE estimate seems to be economist, Crisil, *Rural consump- but some downside risks to the pro- on the higher side. Wage growth has tion,whichconstitutesabout 60%of jectionsremain.Some downsiderisks been Iower this year mainly on the India's total private consumption, to these estimations emerge due to urban side, savings have depleted, & will receive a boost from healthy global headwinds, especially the high food inflationstaysa challenge, kharif production and promising threat of tariff war, said Madan Sab. noted Dhiraj Nim,economist, ANZ prospectsfortherabi season. navis, chief economist, Bank of Bar- Research. Nim sees PFCE growing Emkay Global's Madhavi Arora oda.*Investment and consumption between 6.5% and 6.8% in the cur- said that privat econsumptionis seen continue to remain critical factors rent financiaI year. In H1, PFCE had  remaining tepid, as real urban wages supporting growth in the coming grown 6.7%, meaningin H2 thesec- continueto decline,with ot her cydi- months, he said. The focus would tor's growth is likely to be 7.8%.1n caI headwinds in the form of: (a) fad- nowmove towards the Union Budget, FY24, PFC E grew merely 4%, Iargely  ing tems-of-trade benefits on Iower corporateperformanceand the RBI's dueto tepid rural consumption. commodityprices;(b) tighter Iending rate decision to spur growth.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205148.png]
NSDC starts pan-Indiasurveyto |Petroleum product exports rise 3% identify gaps in skill initiatives ARUNIMA BHARADWAJ market but ifthere are geopolitical New Delhi, January 7 AFRICA AVENUE tensions,it mayincreasethe cost of freight forshippers. Exports of petroleum products Manu KAushIk  survey will serve as a reference INDIA'S ExpORTS OF petroleum The country exports a varietyof  productsin Decemberincreased by  Dec 2023  Nov2024  Dec 2024 New Delhi, Janvary 7  point for future evaluations and  goods via the Red Sea including assessments. Joint efforts will be 3.1%t0 1.37 millionbarrelsperday (barrels per day) petroleum products. However, the 01 Design  GOVERNMEnT  made to design and implement against 1.33 million barrels perday. traffic diversion from the Red Sez  schemes betterand to aid organisa- frameworks that focus on measur- in the corresponding period of and around the Cape of Good Hope  tions in mappingthe demand-sup- ing the effectiveness of training ply gap of skilled manpower, the  programmes and their Iong-term YN  energy cargo tracking firm Vortexa. the region has added 10 days to The exports alsoinareased by4.5% National Skill Developn cnt Corpo- 789  Asia-Europe journeys while also T this data every year through annua! E Total  from 1.31 million barrelsper day in increasing fuel costs, the govern. survey with consumer intelligence surveys. The cost of the survey will the previous month. 1312,740 ment ha d earlier said. fir m Axis My India. As part of the be jointly borne by NSDC and Axis Africa emerged as the top desti- 1330,645 Meanwhile, the domestic con. survey, Axis My India will reach out My India, Tiwari said.  nation for the country's exports in  sumption of petroleum products in to governm ent bodices, educational Estimates by TeamLease Degree December,while supplies to thetra- April-Novemberincreasedto 157.5  million tonne from 152.4 million Asia Europe West North Others 1371,808 eral public to gather essential data *We will be targeting 0.45 million is projected to confront a potential Europe -- declined significantly. Africa tonne in the same period in FY24, on the current state of various skill youth aged between 18 and 35  skill deficit of 30-32 million people "As the diesd arbitrage from Asia Asia Americal  according to data from the petro. years. In addition, we will reach out bythe cnd of FY25 and 47-49 milI- to Europe remains closed, product Source: Vortexa development programmes. to nearly 4,500 representative lion by FY27. Sectors such as  exports to Europe are lacklustre in  growth s majorly driven by arisein  tifydata-driven gaps in keyskilling organisations of different sizes,and December," said Xavier Tang, mar- indrease in product exports cotting Russian supplies post its demand for diesel,aviation turbine initiatives, measure their out- theywill represent a large numberof automobile will face the biggest ket analyst at Vortexa. towards West Asia, likely due to  invasion of Ukra ine. fuel, and liquefied petroleum gas. comes, and enhance beneficiary impact in talent crunch. India exported 349,736 barrels  increased refinery m aintenance in The exports to West Asia The country's demand for petro.. participation rates, particularly in knowtheneeds of theorganisations, Besides capturing data and  per day of petroleum products to the region, Tang said.  increased by 52% to 278,155 bar. Ieum products, induding jet fuel, and the aspirations of the youth. If feedback, the NSDC-Axis My India Asia Iast month, down 33% from rels perdayin Decembercom pared  an NSDC statement. we are able to align the industry's  collaboration will run advocacy 523,052 barrels per day in Novem- Ieum products to countries in  tothe previous month. million tonne in Fy25, as per esti. NSDC CEOVed Mani Tiwari toId needs with the youth's aspirations, campaigns aimed atraisingaware- ber. Exports to Europe dedined by Europe and Asia.The country has  Union minister for petroleum FE thatthesurveywill beconducted the skilling programmes will get ness about the importance of skill 7% to 33,121 barrels per day, the  emerged as a major fuel supplier to  and natural gas HardeepSingh Puri and analysis cdl The country's con. over thenext three m onths,follow. more effective, he said.  d evelopment for reducing overall Iowest in over four years. Europein the past fewmonths after  on multiple events has said that sumption of petroleum products ing which a report will be released. According to NSDC officials,the unemploymentrate. However, there has been an Hhn n no go hnnnns n s hnee

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205336.png]
Telcos may seek time for DPDP compliance JATin Grover Besides, if a minor would use New Delhi, Janvary 7 SIM cardson parents'ID,then it will automatically be from the consent  Telecos can seek  Non- teLecom OperatOrs such as of parents. In the CAF, a column or a longer transition compliance Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and two can be added asking peopleif time to implement could result Reliance Jioare likely to seek an 18- they are taking sim cards for them- changes to their in penalties  month timeline to comply with the sd ves or for minors. provisions of the Digital Personal customer ofupto Sucharita Basu, managing part- Data Protection (DPDP)Act after the application form 250 crore ner atAQUILAW, said, *Data Iocali- not ificationof its rules, sources said.. sation norms may apply to teIcos, The operators are expected to For parental consent norm? Othedaftrule prohibrt likelyimpactingintemational call include this request in their com- ing and messaging services. If the the telcos are ex pected to ask thetransferofspecifie ments to the government on the foradedaration ifthe SiMcard draft rules are finalised in their cur- draft rules for implementing the rent form, the impact on interna. I being bought forachid Outsi de Ind Act, which were released Iast week. tional roaming serviceswill needto The extended tineline is being be assessed." sought to allow telecom operators. The draft rules prohibit the to modify their customer applica- user consent and the implementa- Attorneys. Kumar also highlighted transfer of specific personal ortraf- tion forms (CAFs) and adapt their tion of new technical mecha- theneed forenhanced securitypro- fic data outside Indiaif identified by existing technological frameworks nisms-necessitating significant tocols,giventhat telcos handlesen- the government based on recom- to manage user consent regarding operational changes. sitive data such as Aadhaar-based mendations from a newlyconsti-  data usage and processing. In a bid to ensure verifiable eKYC and biometrics. tutedcommittee. Given the massive volumes of  parental consent to manage data of  Telecom operators will also have The government said the com- personaI data handled by telecom minors, the telecom operators are to ensure mechanisms to manage  mittee framework, emphasisingits operators, they are expected to be  expected to make changes to their dataprincipalrights-such as acces, necessity to address sector-specific. dassified as significant data fidu- CAFs, which would require parents correction, and deletion of data-- data Iocalisation needs, which are ciaries underthe DPDPAct. to declare that SIM card is being which will be particularlychallenging essential for citizens'safety. Currently, telcosutilisepersonal taken for a child. given their large customer base.Non- "Telecom operators should con- data for sending marketing mes- "Obtaining explicit consent for compliance could result in penalties duct athorough assessmentof their sages, making sales pitches, and data collection and third-party of up to <250 crore, imposed by the data processingactivities to ensure  generating app-based offers.They sharing, especially in bundled ser- Data Protection Board. compliancewiththeDPDPAct This also share data with third parties in vices like OTr subscriptions and An executive at a telecom firm includes reviewing consent mech- bundled services, such as offering digital payments, requires major said they are not much concerned anisms, data securitymeasures,and OTT subscriptions or digitaI pay. operational changes," said Jidesh about verifiable parental consent as  procedures for handling data prin. ment add-ons. Under the new Act,. Kumar, managing partner at King  the SIM cards are taken bypeople cipal rights, said Rahul Sundaram, such practices will require explicit Stubb & Kasiva, Advocates and above18. Partner, IndiaLaw LLP.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205402.png]
TCS may see boost in. margins amid muted revenue growth in Q3 URVI MALVANIA RECOVERY IN BFSI Mumbai, Janvary 7 TCS Q3 estimates Tata consultancy services ( cr) Q3Fy24* Q3Fy25** (TCS), set to announce its October-  yo-y chg (%) December earnings on Thursday, is expected to report modest rev- Revenue Ebitda? Net enue growth for the quarter. How- profit ever, analysts anticipate a boost in 85'09  margins, supported byoperational efficiencies and a favourable cost 16,388 17,351 11,718 I7S' structure. Accordingto Bloomberg esti- mates, TCS'Q3 FY25 revenue is projected at 64,754 crore,reflect- ing a modest 0.8% sequential  6.9 .5.9 7.0 growth. Ebitda is expected to rise 3.7%to 17,351 crore, while net Ebitda margin Net proift profit is estimated at <12,541 (%) margin (%) crore, markinga 5.8% quarter-on- 27.1/26.0 49329.43 quarter increase. Analysts attribute the muted Actual"Estimates Souce: Bloomberg revenue performance to seasonal factorslike continues to furloughsandreduced strengthen into contributions from additional  industry Bharat Sanchar Nigam verticals such as hi- (BSNL). Nuvama tech, whichis recover- Research predicts a IRESULTS ingahead of schedule, mere 0.1% growth in Motilal Oswal said in constant currency(CC) PREVIEW its sector preview. terms and a 0.8% Despite subdued decline in dollar rev- revenue growth, oper- enue. Jm Financial  ational efficiencies are expected to highlights an anticipated $60 mil- bolstermargins. Motilal Oswal pro- lion drop in revenue from the jects a 40-basis-point expansion in BSNLcontract. Ebit mrgins, citing factors such as Despite thesechallenges,recov- investmentsin talent development, ery trends in the BFSI (Banking, training, and the absence of wage Financial Services, and Insurance) hikes this quarter. Similarly, JM  sectorin NorthAmericaand growth Financial anticipates a 20-basis. in other regions offer aposit ive out-  point margin boost, aided by Iower Iook. *Recovery appears to be contributions from thelow-margin expandingbeyond US BFSI--which BSNL deaL.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205433.png]
O RAJESH JEJURIKAR, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA Fully constrained on Thar Roxx, XUv3xO capacity Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on we arerampingupbutthe models. Howwill this impact your. different. Wewill startcallingout have not put a timelinetoit. Tuesday announced the prices of the investment forinfrastructure has ou EV murgin and ICE margin top-end version of the soon-to-be  happened fora higherlevelof  The percentage marginsonthe separately. EV margins will be What happanedto theelectric Iaimched BE 6(26.9 Iakh)and XEV capacity.Wehaveto test the EVsaregoing to beleserthanthe dramatically di fferent forthe same Thar thatyou showcased last 9c(<30.5 Iath). Booking of both the suppliercapacityas well along with ICE because theGST ratesare unitmargin.Overa period of time year? models willopen on February 14 and  quality. we would expect the unit margin Itwill be Iaunched with other EV deliveriesare satedfor enrly March. forthese product sto be similarto vehicles.It isnot aconcept which  Rajesh Jejurilar, erec utive What kindof variant mix do the ICEmargins willnot get exec ut ed. We willtalk director, M&M aIso tod you expect for both models? aboutwhenwetalkabouttherest Swaraj Baggonkar that This is thehardest thing M&Mis outpacing the growth of the portfolio. Butit issomething M&M is totallycorstmined to predict. We Iook for logged by therest of the industry we will do. on capacity for Thar Rorx different inputsand oneof andat that pace youwill run out andXUV3XO. Ercerpts them isthe'add to cart' Of capacitypretty soon. Have we exploredthe possibility feature which we started a few We are workingoncapacity on of bringingthese EVsin the ICE At what capacity willyou start years back This is the first timewe some of our products. We are to tally. version? the production of the two cars? arelaunching two productsat the constrained oncapacity for Thar It isnot thateasyto bringit in The capacityfor both the cars is same time We decided to go for the  Roxx and XUV3xO.We have so me ICE.  90,000 perannum. Whatwehave highest variants, backed by a planstoincrease that over the next shared today(5,000 per month)we simple and affordable finance 6-8monthsbut I fear that won't be Whywas there a reduction in the thinkis theright paceatwhichwe O pt ion.  enough to solve the wait ing period  investment by British would like to rampup ina waywe isue. International I nvestment in the st abilise quality,customer Thecomponentsthat EV company?? experience and stabilise service  have gone into making Arethereplans for fresh We did not need more than capability at dealerships. We will the EVs are more investments for new capacity? that,justa balancinggap.It was a  nan the production lines to pace expensive thantheICE At some stage we willdoit We mutual decision.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205512.png]
e & wedding Festive boost for jewellers RAGHAV AGGARWAL AUSPICIOUS START New Delhi, Janvary 7  Rapid store expansion into tier-2 and tier-3 JeWeLLery firmS Are setto cities has also report a strong year-on-year contributed to the revenue growth of revenue growth for the Octo- ber-December quarter, driven jewellery majors by strong wedding and festive  Analysts expect demand,accordingtoanalysts revenue growth for and company updates. jewelery majors to "Consumption remained range between 25% and buoyant, supported by higher 30% y-o-y forthe quarter realisations amid sustained  Eanings before gold price increases, a higher interest, tax, number of auspicious days,  Kalyan Jewellers on Tuesday depreciation, and anda gradual shift from unor-  reported a 39% year-or-year amortisation and profit ganisedtoorganisedtrade fol- increase in consolidated after tax are likely to lowing the sharp 900 basis revenve during Q3FY25 in grow by approximately points (bps) cut in gold import its update 20% & 18% respectively duty, said Srikumar Krishna- murthy, senior vice president & co-group head, corporate son. "Robust trac- Motilal Oswal esti- ratings,Icra. tion during Diwali mates a 31%rise. The FY25 Union Budget translated into high  Earnings before had reduced the import duty single-digit buyer interest, tax,depre- on gold from 15% to 6%, sig.  growth along with cation, and amorti- nificantly boosting organised double-digit ticket zation and profit IRESULTS) players. size growth, the after tax arelikelyto In its quarterly business company said in its PREVIEW | grow by approxi- update, Kalyan Jewellers on update. mately 20% and Tuesday reported a 3 9% year- "Jewellery com- 18% y-o-y, respec- on-year increase in consoli-  panies benefited from strong tively. datedrevenue during Q3FY25. SSSG and sustained consumer Despite strong topline Its India operations posted a demand, said a report by Moti- growth, some challenges per- 41% revenue growth, sup- IaI Oswal. Rapid store expan- sist. Retailers adopting fomal ported bya 24% rise in same- sionintotier-2andtier-3cities hedging for gold purchases store sales gro wth (SssG).Titan has also contributed to the rev- may facetemporarylosses due Company aIso posted an enue growth of jewellery to theimport dutycut,result- impressive performance in an majors. Analysts expect rev- ing in margin contraction. update released on Monday, enue growth for jewellery Additionally, sequential finan. with its domestic jewellery  majors torange between 25% cial perfomance may remain segment growing 25% y-o-y,  and 3 0%y-o-y forthe quarter. flat, as Q2FY25 had aIready driven by strong consumer  Nuvama Instit utional Equities. reennne reenne eoennee demand during the festive sea- projects growth at 24%, while growth.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205527.png]
Premium play: JioStar raises bouquet prices by 18% CHRISTINA MONIZ Mumbai, January 7 STEEP HIKE  JioStar has brokenthe <19 ceiling for two individual Major broadcast net-  JioStar now hasthe channels, Colors Kannadaand wORKs have announced a highest channel  Maa TV, raising their subscription ratesto 25 price hike fortheir channels at bouquct rates the start of the new year,with  Other players have  players like JioStar increasing increased prices by theirrates by 18%.As a re sult, up to 10% JioStar now has the highest  JioStar has also channel bouquet rates. Other unveiled 83 channel players, including Zee Enter- packs comprising tainment Enterprises (ZEEL) 134 channels and Sony Pictures Networks India (SPNI), have alsorevised their rates, with an average increaseof10%. rival channel. channels, Colors Kannada and An 18% price hike is JioStar has also unveiled Maa TV, raising their sub- unusually high, the largest in 83 channel packs comprising scription rates to <25. These the Iast seven years,according 134 channels - 85 of which channels are available only on to Karan Taurani, seniorV-P at are standard definition, 44 an a-Ia-carte basis. Elara Securities. He notesthat  high definition and five free SPNI's Hindi bouquet rate most broadcast players typi- channels. The value pack for has increased from 248 to cally raise theirbouquet rates standard definition is now  54,while ZEEL's Hindi chan- by 7-9% annually. This is a 110,up from the combined nel bouquet pricing has risen smart strategy, particularly Star India (60) and Via- from47to<53. for the newly-merged entity, com18 (R34) Hindi pack "There won't be a major asit is the mostlogical wayto rates. churn in subscribers either, drive up revenues. Both Via- JioStar has unveiled 83 especially not in urban mar- com18 and Disney Star had channel packs,offeringa total kets. Even though networks been incurring Iosses from of 134 channels,induding 85 like Zee and Sony may Iose their premium sporting con- in standard definition, 44 in more subscribers than JioStar, tent, which they had been high definition, and five free the impact of the price rise offering for free, Taurani channels. The value pack for will be positive from a rev- added. standard definition channels enue standpoint, observes This could indicate that is now priced at < 110,upfrom Taurani. The only negative the brand is aiming for a pre- the combined rates of Star fallout of the new pricing  miun positioning leveraging India (60) and Viacom18 could be in terms of advertiser properties such as Star Gold (34) for their Hindi packs. interest, sinceeven the smallI- Network, Colors TV, and Star JioStar has broken the <19 est drop in viewership could Sports, said an official froma ceiling for two individual keep advertisers away.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205545.png]
Office space leasing peaks in 2024 PREss TRust Of inDIA Extrapolate any industry New Delhi, Janvary 7 trend- from GCC to ITES to BFSI to domestic firms and DEManD FOR OFFiCE space flex spaces,India is becoming across eight major cities was the office of choice as well as at an all-time high during last the workforce for the world. year,beating previous highin Marwah said there is a need to pre-COVID year 2019,accord- "bolster an enabling environ- ingto Knight Frank. ment from the discipline of During 2020 and 2021 our reforms to the quality of calendar years, the office ourofferings to rid ethis wave space demand had plungeds toits utmost potential.'Asper due to the outbreak of Covid the Knight Frank data, the. pandemic. gIobal economic Iandscape, gross leasingof office spacein Total office space absorp- real estate consuItant Knight Bengaluru rose 45% to 181 tion duringthe 2024 stood at Frank India said. Iakh sq ft in 2024. an impressive 719 Iakh The exceptional demand The gross  Ieasing square feet, surpassing the for office spaces underscores increased in Delhi-NCR by previous peak achieved in the confidence of gIobal and 25% to 127 Iakh sq ft whiIe pre-pandemic 2019 by 19%. domestic businesses in India's Mumbai sawa 40% growth to On a year-on-year basis, thriving business,it added. 104 lakh sq feet. office space transactions in On the office market, pre-  In Hyderabad,thedemand 2024 recorded a 21% growth mium managed office space. increased 17% to 103 Iakh compared to 2023. operator Ananta Karma square feet last year. This stellar achievement Tattva India founderand CEO Chennai, however, reflects India's economic. Nidhi Marwah said, "The reported a decline of 25% to resilience, sustained GDP Indian economy has been an 81 Iakh square feet. growth,robust domestic con- island of calm in a turbulent  In Pune, the gross Ieasing sumption, and the country's world. It is a crucible moment increased 19% to 80 Iakh increasingprominenceinthe forIndia. square feet.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205616.png]
RUPEE REPORTS BIGGEST SINGLE-DAY JUMP IN MORE THAN A MONTH Re, stocks snap losing streak AnUPRESKSHA JAINE BARRING IT & TECH, ALL SECTORAL INDICES GAIN & KiShOR KADAm  Mumbai, Janvary 7  NIFTY SENseX Intra-day, January 7 TOP SENSEX GAINERS THE RUPEE SNAPPED the five-day  Intra-day, Janvary 7 0.39% 78,199.11 2.25 (% gain) Iosing streak and recorded its 23,707.90 (0.30% Close biggest single-day gain in more than Close a monthon Tuesday, asreports sug. 1 1.44 1.28 gested that US President-dect Don- 23,679.90 aldTrumpis likely to beless aggres- Previous close Previous clos e 1.10 Open 23,616.05 77,964.99 sivewith hispolicies on tariff.Other Asian currencies, too, gained RUPEE VS DOLLAR -78,019.80 between 0.2% and 0.9% vis-a-vis- Intra-day, Janvary 7 Open the greenback. 85.72 (Inverted scale) Close Therupee, after hitting an intra- day Iow of 85.80/$, settledat 85.72, Tata Motors  Inds Bank  Bank sian Paints a gainof 11 paise,or0.12%, overthe  Reliance I  previous close. The dollar index fell Ind us Ind ICICI 0.3%to 107.9.A report byThe Wash-  85.78 0.1 Previous close ington Post on Mondaysaid Trump's Open 85.83 aides were exploring tariff plans that would apply to every country, but only cover certain sectors deemed two sessions. The Sensex rose 234  Bank Nifty gained0.56%. being downgraded by Jefferies due critical to national or economic points, or 0.30%, to close at Investors' wealth surged by to concerns overaggressive compe-e  security, prompting a slumpin the 78,199.11, partly driven by value 2.96 Iakh crore to <441.75 Iakh tition and higherdiscounts. dollarindex. buying in index heavyweights. The crore. ONGC emerged as the top Nifty "This is a temporaryrelief as the NSE Nifty rose 91.85 points, or  Foreign portfolio investors were gainer,rising 3.79% to atwo-month market is largelyanticipating fur- 0.39%,to 23,707.90. net sellers for the third consecutive high afterCLSA rated the stock as a therdepreciation intherupee owing The overall market breadth was day, offloading shares worth high-convictionout performer,citing to a strong dollar in coming  positive, with two gainers for every <1,491.46 crore, while domestic a likely boost to eamings this year. days, said a forex traderwith a pri- loser. Broader markets outper- institutionalinvestors werenet buy- After market hours on Tuesday, vate bank. formed the benchmarks, with the ers, purchasing equities worth the government released the first Another positive for the rupee BSE midcap and BSE smalIcap 1,615.28 crore,accordingto provi- advance estimate for the current fis. was prices of crude oil which fdI for indices advancing 0.77% and sional exchangedata. caI year, projecting the GDP growth the second straight session. Brent 1.74%, respectivdy. Rdiance Industries contributed to slow to a four-year Iow of 6.4%, Crude, the global oil benchmark, fell  BarringITand technology,allthe morethanhalf ofthe Sensex'sgains,  down from 8.2%in FY24. to $76.36 a barrel as the optimism sectoralindices ended in the green. adding 132 points as its share price Though the growth projections overdemand due togrowth,partic- Energy, oil & gas and industrials rose 1.86% to 21,240.90. Tata align with economists forecasts, it ularly from China, faded. werethetopperfomers,risingupto Motors, with a 2.25% gain,was the  remains to be seen how the equity  Equity indicesgained on Tuesday 1.5 5%, while IT and teck declined top Sensex gainer.Zomato was the and currencymarkets react to this after a decine of 2.5% over the last 0.36%and 0.51%,respect ively.The  topSensex loser, falling4.59% after development on Wednesday.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205836.png]
JPMorgan last major US bank to quit Net-Zero Banking Alliance ALASTAIR MARSH NZBA follow simil ar exits across di- & SAIJEL KiSHAN mate alliances in other corners of Janvary 7 JPMorcAe thefinanceindustry. In 202 3,a sub  group for insurers saw a mass exo- JpmORGan ChAsE & Co.is Ieaving dus amid litigation threats.And in a major dimate finance group, 2022,an equivalent group forasset becoming the Iast of Wall Street's managers parted ways with Van- biggest banks to walk away. The guard Group, the world's second- Iargest bank in the US has decided 11 largest money manager.. to quit the Net-Zero Banking JPMorganisaleading financierof Alliance (NZ BA), it said on Tuesday. bothhigh-and Iow-carbon energy. In JPMorgan will *continue to work :. w^ 2024, the firm was the top-ranked independentIyto advancetheinter- With the departure of JPMorgan, only three US lenders - Amalgamated banker for oil, gas and coal deals, as estsofourfim,ourshareholdersand Bank, Areti Bank and Climate First Bank - remain as members ofthe well as a top-five provider of green our clients and remain focused on  NZBA, compared with about 80 banks in Europe, according to the bonds and loans,according to data pragmatic solu tions to help further alliance's website. compiled by Bloomberg. Iow-carbon technologies while In the bank's Iatest climate advancing energy security, accord-  group, Bank of America, Goldman three US Ienders - AmaIgamated report, chief executive officer Jamie ingtoan emailed statenent."Wewill Sachs Group and WelIs Fargo & Co. Bank, Areti Bank and Climate First Dimon said IPMorgan seeks "to also continuetosupportthe banking So far in January, Morgan Stanley Bank - remain as members of enable indusive, sustainable eco- and investment needs of our dients has said it's quitting the group. NZBA, compared with about 80  nomic growth because it's good for who are engaged inenergy transition Departures to date have been con- banks in Europe, according to the business"."As society seeks to avoid and in decarbonising different sec- centrated in the US, against a back- all iance'swebsite.. the worst impacts of climate torsof the economy" drop of intensified attacks by the. Banks that have Icft NZBAsaythey change, it also requires affordable JPMorgan's exit marks thelatest  Republican Partyonwhat it'ssought remaincommitted tohelping dients. and secureenergyto thrive. Scaling blow to NZBA.In December alone, to characteriseas"woke"capitalism.  transition to alow-carbon future.  zero-carbon energyisa critical path the alliance parted ways with Citi- WithJPMorgan's departure,only The defections that have hit forward" -BLOOmBERGE

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205900.png]
Exim Bank raises $1 bn via overseas bonds Press Trust Of inDIA negative new issue Managing director scribers are asset and to move quickly to achieve a signif- Mumbai, Janvary 7 concession of 0.05%, Harsha Bangari fund managers, 18% icant price tightening by 30 basis. the statement said. said the money has arebanksand16%are  points from the initial price guid- EXIm BANK On Tuesday said it has The Department of been raised at "the insurance, pension ance, she added. raised $1 billion (about 28,570 FinancialServices (DFS) funds and public sec- Exim Bank has been rated as tightest spread crore) through an overseas bond temed it as a"fantastic tor, followed byprivate Baa3 (Stable) by Moody's, BBB- start" to the year by ever achieved issuance at very competitive rates. banks and others, the (Positive) by S&P and BBB- (StabIe) from India"  The policybank will be using the  I ndian issuers in global DFS said. by Fitch. money to fund its ongoing and new capital markets with The Iender's The DFS said the transaction initiatives acrosstheworld,accord-. EXIM raising the deputy  managing demonstrates the confidence of. ing to a statement. money in the dollar-denominated director, Deepali Agrawal, said the overseas investors in the Indiastory. Managing director Harsha Ban- public bond issuance. issue witnessed apeak order bookof Exim Bank provides financal  gari saidthe moneyhasbeenraised Thestatement from EXIM Bank 2.7 billion,courtesy the quasi-sov- assistance to exporters and at "the tightest spread ever said the half of the investors was ereign nature of the bank, strong importers, and functions as the achieved from India.Thebank cap- from Asia, nearly a third from credit profile and India's indusion  principal financial institution for italised on a strong demand Europe, the WestAsia and Africaand in JPMorgan emerging bond index. coordinating the working of insti- momentum to achievea final pric- 18% from the US. "Given the quality book-build tutionsengagedinfinancingexport ing of US treasury pIus 1% with a Nearly two-thirds of the sub- and the Iarge book size,we elected and import of goods and services.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 205931.png]
TREMORS FELT IN NEPAL, BHUTAN AND PARTS OFNORTHERN INDIA 126 killed, , 188 injured after multiple quakes jolt Tibet JOE CASh &gOPAL ShArmA Beijing/Kathmandu, Janvary 7 AT LEAST 126 people were killed and more than 188 injured as six earthquakes,including a powerful one measuring 7.1 on the Richter scale, rocked Tibet in one hour on Tuesday, news agency Associated Press reported. The earthquakes shook buildings in many areas in India, NepaI and Bhutan. The magnitude 6.8 quake's epicentre was about 80 km (50 miles) north of Mount Everest,the world's highest mountain. Tremors also shook buildings in neighbouring Nepal, Bhutanand India. t++$r The impact was felt across the Shigatse region of Tibet, hometo 800,000 people. The region is administered from Shigatse city, the traditional seat of the Rescue workers search for survivors in Changsuo township of Dingri AP Panchen Lama, one of the most important fig- twytag It struck at 9:05 am(0105 GMT). workers have been despatched to ures in Tibetan Bud- Footage broadcast on state the affected areas, Xinhua said. dhism. degrees Celsius (21 degrees television CCTV showed rescuers Some 22,000 items including  Many homes in Shigatse city  Fahrenheit) ate on Tuesd ay, and performing CPR on an injured per- tents, coats, quilts and folding were reduced to rubble, video were forecast to drop as Iow as son and soldiers erecting tempo- beds have also been sent, it said. released by Tibet Fire and Rescue minus16C (3 F) overnight. rary shelters. China closed the Villages in Tingri, where the showed. Rescue workers searched The China Earthquake Net- Everest region to tourists after the  average elevationis around 4,000- through the debris of a ruined works Centre located the epicen- quake, Xinhua reported. Mount 5,000 metres (13,000-16,000 home and pulled out one injured tre at Tingri county, known as the Everest is a popular destination for feet), reported strong shaking dur- person, it showed. northern gateway to the Everest climbers and trekkers but winter  ing the quake, which was followed Adding to the misery for those region, at a depth of 10 km (6.2 is not a prime season for climbers  more than 150 aftershocks with Ieft homeless,temperaturesinthe miles). The U.s.Geological Service and hikers in Nepal. More than magnitudes ofupto 4.4. region had fallen to minus 6 put the quake's magnitude at 7.1. 1,500 firefighters and rescue REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210015.png]
Apple faces tough Jan as China weakness, tariff risks weigh BLOomBErg Jan vary 7 Apple Shares Have had a chaI- Ienging start to 2025, as investors fret over weakness in the critical Chinese market. The shares fell for five straight sessions before Monday's bounce, in the Iongest Iosing streak since April They've been pressured by China smartphone data, which analysts said pointed to weaker iPhone shipments, and a Reuters The shares fell for five straight report that Apple is offering dis- counts in China. sessions before Monday's The drop indicates that investors bounce, inthe longest losing who had Iooked past a Iukewarm streak since April response to the artificial intelli- gence-infused iPhone and tariff- related risks under the incoming after the shares rose more than Trump administration may have. 30% in 2024. The stock hit arecord Iost patience. high in December,when investors *It increasingly seemslike China were betting that Apple will ulti- just won't be there as an avenue for mately become a winner in AI and growth at Apple, given an overall that Chief Executive Officer Tim weaker smartphone market, com- Cookwould be ableto overcome any petition from Huawei, and the risk tariff threats. of tariffs, said David Wagner, port- But concerns about China have  folio manager atAptus Capit alAdvi- fomented negative sentiment in sors. Wagner said he wouldn't be recent sessions. The report of dis- surprised if the stock'srecent weak- counts on iPhones in China reflects ness continuesthroughout the year, how market conditionsin the coun- given its elevated valuation. try "have been plagued by a slow- Shares are down 2.2% so far in  down in consumer spending as well January, compared with a gain of asincreased rivalry from Huawei," 2.6% for the Nasdaq 100Index.And according to Bloomberg Intelli- its performance is crucial to the. gence Meanwhile, theChinese data overall market: Appleaccounted for on smartphone shipments is not a about 9% of the S&P 500's 23%  good sign for the iPhone 16 cycle, rallyIastyear, makingit the second- analystsat Barclays wrote,referring biggest contributor to index gains. to the first model of the smart- behind Nvidia. The drop comes phone to offerAI features.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210033.png]
Meta embraces community notes REUTERS Janvary 7 Company adds three board METAIS EnDinG its fact-checking members,including UFC boss  program in the US and replacing it X Meta with a "Community Notes" system similar to that on Elon Musk- MEta has Appointed three  could be seen as Mark Zucker- owned X, the Facebook parent said new members to its board of berg's Iatest maneuver to on Tuesday. directors, including Dana White. improve ties with Trump, who The Community Notes model the president and CEO of Ulti- was once  banned 1from will allow users on Meta's social check and how ... A program mate Fighting Championship Facebook. media sites Facebook, Instagram intended to inform too often  and a key figure in the orbit of  After Trump won re-election and Threads to call out posts that became a tool tocensor" Meta said. incoming President Donald  in November, Zuckerberg dined are potentiallymisleading and need Meta added that its efforts over at the president-elect's Mar-a-  more context, rather than placing theyears tomanage content across Thesocialmedia company is also Lago club in Florida and Meta the responsibility on independent its plat forms have expanded *to the adding auto tycoon John Elkann  donated $1 million to Trump's fact checking organizations and point where we are making too and tech investor Charlie  inauguration fund. experts."Experts, like everyone else, many mistakes, frustrating our Songhurst, Meta CEO Mark Other Big Tech companies have their own biases and perspec-  users and too often gettingin the Zuckerberg said. such as Amazon have donated tives. This showed upin thechoices wayofthefree expression we set out Tapping White to join the board similar amounts. AP some made about what to fact to enable."

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210052.png]
Microsoft to invest $3 bn in India Tax giveaways Paint makers in race to acquire AkzoNobel in Budget... Puneet Chandok, president of Nadella's visit to India also In a clarification to exchanges,  and PVC pipes maker Astral have Microsoft India and South Asia, included a meeting with Prime Berger Paints said it considers vari-  entered the domestic paintsmarke added that the initiative would Minister Narendra Modi on Mon- This would bring down ffec ive tax  ous proposals for inorganic growth in India in recent years. More com. equipIndia's workforce with essen- day, where he pledged Microsoft's rates forthe taxpayers,he noted.  and diversification as a matter of  panies such as JK Cement have alsc tial, future-ready skills for a com- support for India's Al mission and The first slab can be from 4-7 routine exercise. stepped into paints in the last twc petitive global marketplace. *We digital aspirations." India's devel- lakh instead of R3-6 Iakh now,and "There is no material event, years.  aim to unlock possibilities for the oper community and entrepre. other shbs would get adjusted  information and development in  In a note on the domestic paints Microsoft neurial spirit make it a pivotal market, brokerage Elara Capital munities access to the compute  player in the global AI landscape," especially in urban areas (where the Paints said. noted that the battle forincremen. they need to thrive in the Al era, he Nadella said.  majonty of income taxpayers reside) Both Aditya Birla groupand JSW tal market share within paints wa. stated. Microsoft's Iatest announce. expanding slabsat lower and middle-  Paints declined comment when Monday. Sources point to growing ex pected to intensify as bothestab Microsoft also signed an AI India's AI and SaaS ecosystem.  ments aim to position India at the income levels, that is, up to 20% tax contacted. Indigo Paints was not lished players such as Asian Paint memorandum of understanding Furthermore,  Microsoft forefront ofAl innovation,blending bracket should be considered, Kapa-  immediately available for com-  market for the global promoters of and Berger and new entrants such (MoU) with SaaS Boomi, a Ieading  Research (MSR) Lab announced infrastructure, skills development ment. AkzoNobel Iooking at a possible as Birla Opus increase therdistnb Indian B2B startupcommunity.The plans to accelerte innovation  and collaboration to harness the sonal income tax receipts have been Shares of AkzoNobel India India exit. If the deal fructifies,it ution effort. Smaller dealers,it said partnership seeks to upskill over t hrough partnerships with digitally  potential of a 1.4-billion-strong growing atrobust rateinrecen tyears  may trigger anewround of consoli-  are prioritising margin-focuse 150,000 startupemployees,attract nativebusinesses. MSR's collabora- nation.*The diffusion rate of AI in and will likely exceed the target in  apiece on the BSE on Tuesday, as dation within paints, which has  $1.5 billion in venture capit al fund- tions, such as a joint effort with  Indin is remarkable, Nadella said. FY2 5.Gross PIT (before devolution) investors lapped up news ofits pos-  seen the entry of new players over sure on established players. Most ing and create 200,000 new jobsin Physics wallah on math reasoning. *Weare committed to empowering receiptsrose 25%to37.41lakh core sible stake sale. Berger Paints dlosed the last few years. Besides JSW and the next five years. This collabora- highlight its focus on applying AI  every person and organisation to in April-November of FY25 against trade up 0.96% at 451.35 apiece. Aditya Birlagroup, com panies such  increasing trade margins and pro tionaimstofoster the emagenceof research to practical business solu- achieve moreinthis excitingAI em," required rate of13.6%to achievethe While Indigo Paints settled up as Pidilite Industries, best known  motions tominimise the impactol  50 unicorns and "soonicorns" in tions. he added. annual target of11.87 lakh crore. 1.21% at 1,356.80 apiece on for its Fevicol and Fevikwik brands, com petition on their business.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210150.png]
Challenges in state budgeting There must be stronger incentives for states to ADitya SinhA improve their fiscal planning and bring off-budget The writer is a public policy professional borrowings into the formal fiscal framework. X: @odityosinh0 004 Frederic bastiat Once remarked, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, tax. However, it is inportant to acknowl- to 13. Sectors such as urban develop. "Govemment is thegreat fiction through Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, and Rajasthan edge the significant impact of Covid-19 ment, irrigation, transport, and water whichever ybodyendeavoursto live atthe - havelegislated theactuarial disdosure during period II, which disrupted eco- supply saw widespread deterioration, expense of everybody else." Nowhere is of pension liabilities for the next decade, nomic activity,created volatilityincentral with states like Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, this fiction more evident than in India's enhancing fiscal foresight However, uni- transfers,and added unprecedented chal- and Maharashtra consistently scoring  sub-national public finance, where the fomity in revealing other sensitive fiscal Ienges to fiscal management. While sys- "D. Even traditionally stable sectorslike illusion of infinite resources drives. data, suchascontingent liabilit ies and off- temic issues like resource constraintsand. medical and public health failed to chronic overspending, mounting debts, budget borrowings,remainschallenging. infrastructural bottlenecks remain criti- secure meaningful improvements. and politicaIshort-temism.Sub-national Supplementarygrants,commonlyused to cal,thepandenicundeniablyexacerbated While the Covid-19 pandemic undeni- fiscal responsibility Iegislations (FRLs) manageunforeseen expendi tures are dis- budgetinginefficienciesat the statelevel. wereintroduced to impose discipline, but dosed bymoststatesasmandated bytheir The PEFA scores forrevenue expendi- cution, the toll on capital expenditure theirdesign and enforcementvarywidely FRLs, thoughactual utilisationoften falls ture also reveal significant deviations reflects deeper structuraI weaknesses, across states,reflecting a troubling lack of short of estimates. from Budgetestinatesacrosskeysectors.  including poor programme manage- uniformity.While some states adhereto More inportantly,the RBI has evalu- In sectors such as urban development, ment and prioritising fiscal rule compli- stringent rules and demonstrate fiscal ated state Budgets throughthelens of agriculture and allied activities, rural ance over Iong-term investment. This prudence, others exploit Ioopholes or the Public Expenditure development, and energy, persistent underperformance under- ignore Iong-term consequences in and FinancialAccountabil- most states consistentlyfell scores the inability of states to effec- Persistent favour of immediate political gains. This ity (PEFA) framework It  into the"D"categoryin both tively plan and execute capital budgets, stark variation, coupled with economic. analyses Budgets using 31 underperformance period I and II. For example, compromising critical infrastructure mismanagement, creates a dangerous. performance indicators underscores the in agriculture and allied development across the board. The cocktail of fiscal instability. Without. grouped under seven pil- activities, only Tamil Nadu inability of states underperformance in capital expendi. consistent standards and stronger Tars, focusing on Budget maintained an "A, while tureis particularly conceming given its to effectively plan accountability, Indiarisks plunginginto reliability and trans- most other states, such as significantly higher economic multi- parencyof public finances. and execute a fiscal disaster where one state's. Bihar, Gujarat, and Uttar plier than revenue expenditure. excessescould spill over and undermine PEFAscoresrangefrom"A" capital budgets Pradesh, failed to achieve To addressthe persistent gapsinstate- the na tion's economic foundation. to"D",based on howclosely even a"C".Similady, inurban Ievd budgeting and fiscalmarksmanship, The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in its actual receipts and expen- development, no state there must be stronger incentives for Iat est State Finan ces Report,hasreviewed  dit ures align wit h Budget es timates over secured anA"or"B"in period II,reflecting statesto improve theirfiscalplanning and sub-national FRLs,and thereportisworth a three-year period. systemic inefficiencies in planningand bringoff-budget borrowings into thefor- a read.Fiscaltransparencyisa comerstone The PEFA scores acoss 2O major execution. Further, given the freebies mal fiscal framework The Finance Com- Ofgood governance While the Uniongov-  Indian states highlight systemic ssuesin being doled out across states, the fiscal mission could play a pivotal role by link- ernment has made significant strides in budgetingaccuracy, particularlyin rev. marksmanshipunder thiscategorymight ing grants and allocations to improved fiscaI transparency, state governments enue receipts. During period 1 (2016-17 deterioratein thefuture. Budgetreliability,bet ter fiscal disclosures, have also adopted measures to enhance. to 2018-19), states such as Jharkhand, The PEFA scores for capital expendi- and adherence to FRL. By tying these their fiscal disclosures. Key princples Madhya Pradesh,and Odishaachieved A, ture across Indian states reveal a sharp  grants to measurable reforms, states include publishing ac cessible Budget doc- but by period II (2019-20 to 2021-22)no decline in fiscal marksmanship, with would have a tangible incentive to en- umentslike"Budget at a Glance"and dis. fewer states achieving crediblescores in hancetransparencyand accuracyin ther closingsignificantchanges inaccounting 16 states, induding Andhra Pradesh,  period II compared to period I. While budgeting processes. Without such con- standards or fiscal practices Statessuch as Bihar, and Rajasthan, falling to a"D This states like Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh,  dit ions it will be difficult to nudge states Hinnchal Pradesh,Jharkhand,Karnatak, decline underscores weaknesses in fiscal and Odishaachieved*A"in periodI,only toward the next generation of reforms to Maharashtra, Odisha, and Rajasthan forecasting and budgeting processes,  Jharkhand and Telangana achieved it in strengthen subnat ional FRLs. stand out forexplicitlyreportingthese dis- including poor estimation ofkeyrevenue period II, and the number of states closures. Some states - Andhra Pradesh, components like state goodsand services. falling to the lowest*D category surged Views are persona!

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210413.png]
Revolutionising legal services He significant incr- mately40%ofthishas beenconcentrated T EASE in cross-border trade in North America. This regionaI domi. and investment flows due to nance is gradually shifting towards fast.  globalisation is also foster- growing economies such as India, China, DHRUVA KUMAR SINGH  ing global integrat ion of the WestAsia,and LatinAmerica Thissurgeis Iegal sector.This trend presents both chal- driven by factors such as rapid economic Chief controller of accounts, ministry of law andjustice, Ienges and opportunities for the tradi- growth, ongoing diversification of Supreme Court, and ministry of corporate affairs tionally conservative sector worldwide, economies and even complexitiesofreg. including in India. ulatory framework. Many trade treaties and agreements, India to provide legal advice under a *fly In response, organisations such as the To keep up with the evolving land. in addition to facilitating trade, have in and fly out" arrangement and International BarAssociation have also scape,the Indian Iegal sectorneeds a qual-  begun incorporating provisions for the instructed the BarCouncilofIndia(BCI)to  developed standards over the past two ity revolution. One of the key areas for cross-border movement of Iegal person- est ablishrulesonthismatter.In 2023, the decades, covering areaslike international transfomation isIegal education. With z nel. The General Agreement on Trade in BCI introduced regulations allowing for- arbitration, legal ethics, and theindepen- fewexceptions,the legaleducation systen Services of 1995 indudes provisions for eign lawyers tovist India and offer legal  dence ofthelegal profession.These stan- often carries a perception of mediocrity. the movementof services,including Iegal. advice based on the principles of"redi- dards aim to bring greater unifomityto This underscores the need for a curricu. Similarly, several regional agreements Iegal practices worldwide, despitethereg. Ium overhaul that includes exposure tc have established frameworks to support subject to specific conditions. ul at oryand cult uraIdifferences that exist foreignlaws,Iegal tech,and ot her modem this, such as the North American Free Regulatorybodiesworldwide are grad- across jurisdictions. elements. Foreign Iaws,for instance, are Trade Agreement (1994), the ASEAN uallyrecognising theneed to facilit ate the The tradit ion al Iegal ecosystem based  generally not taught at thegraduate level (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) cross-border movement of Iegal person- on national boundaries is facing signific- in Indian lawschools. Framework Agreement on Services nel. China has chosen not to ant disruption duetotherise  Like any other profession, the Iegal (1995), the Comprehensive Economic and Ieverage its substantial eco- With a few of"Iegal tech. Technologies field cannot afford to remain Iow-tech. TradeAgreement between Canada and nomic power to exc lude for- such asart ificial int elligence While some large law fims have started exceptions, the the European Union (2016), etc. eign Iegal firms. Instead, it (AI) and borderess doud- usingAI, data analytics, and simil ar tech. However, these treaties allow for the hasfocused onenhancingle- legal education based data rooms are not nologies forcase analysis and record man. cross-border movement of legal person- gal education and fostering system often only challenging national agenent,and the governmentis promot.  nel only on a temporary basis and under experience-sharing toimp. regulations but, in many  ing digitisation through initiatives like carries a regulatory oversightAmid thenear-total rove the competitiveness of instances, questioning fun- e-Courts, technological literacy among perception of unification of markets, the EU stands out its domestic legalsector.Acc- damentallegal principles.In Lawyers remains limited. Rather than in this regard. The EU introduced the ordingto one estimate, aro- mediocrity this new paradigm, dients, viewing legal tech as a threattothe pro. Lawyers' Establishment Directive (Direc-  und 250 foreign legal fims who once played a central fession's viability, its adoption should be tive 98/5/EC) to encourage greater inte- operate in China. Similarly,  role in the tra ditional Iegal encouraged byincentivising lawyers tc gration of the union's Iegal market. the Brazilian BarAssociation successfully framework, have beenreplaced by"users? offer smarter, tech-driven values tc  In India, the issue of cross-border addresed opposition from a segment of There are questions asto howAI will align dients. In this context,fostering techno- movement of Iegal personnel arose the bar to foster greater collaboration with national laws and how the al gorith- Iogical innovation to provide smart solu. through litigation.It wasalleged that cer- between foreign and domestic law firms. mic assum ptions used by com puters to tionsfor clientsandinprove accesstojus. tain foreign Iaw firms had established The growing internationalisation of deliverlegal outcomeswill be scrutinised. tice is crucial. In addition, there is offices in India in an unauthorised man.  Iegal practiceis anundeniablereality.The These are just some of the issues that the significant potential for establishing ner. This was challenged in the Bombay rise of global legal hubs in cities like Sin. gIoballegal communitymust addres. state-of-the-art innovat ioncentres within and Madras High Courts. Ultimately, the  gapore, Dubai, and London is evidence of In this context, it is essential to the framework of public-private partner. casereached the Suprene Court of In dia, this trend.Legal issuesrdated to environ. acknowledge that the legal ecosysten is ships,particularly for legal start-ups. which passed ajudgment in 2018stating mental, social, and govemance compli- notonlybecoming increasinglyglobalbut The Indian Iegal sector should that only advocates enrolled under the ance, data privacy, digital laws, interna- it is also undergoinga profound transfor- embrace these trends and competition provisions of theAdvocatesAct,1961,are tional transactions, etc. are gaining mation.The globalmarket for legal works theybringandIead thewayinthesecond permitted to"practise"law in India. increasing importance.Addressing legal exceeds $1.1 trillion, a size comparableto quarter of thiscentury. Nevertheles, the court permitted for- issues in these areas necessitates coordi- that of the glo balinformat ion technology eign Iawyers to make "casual visits"to nated transnational responses. services market Historically, approxi- Vieus are personni

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210525.png]
GEETIKA SRIVASTAVA PRIVACY REGULATION which incurs additional expenses. "Security,throughout thelifecycle FOR YEARS, THE Z916-billion The cost of of the data, will be paramount," consent Indian marketing industry has Says Bagwe. relied on anabundance of personal  The financial burden aside, the data to craft targeted campaigns, Act will trigger marketers to think often without explicit user con- out of the box. It will prompt busi- sent Clearly, there was significant  oThe proposed DPDP Rules challenge marketers to rethink strategy nessesto prioritisefirst-party data, disconnect between consumers  Ieveraging Ioyalty programmes and their personal data and how and direct customer engagement thecom panies that collect it,useit. THERULESOFENGAGEMENT over third-party data. This shift. The proposed Digit al Personal Data could Ievel the playing field for Protection (DPDP) Rules have the  smaller firms, allowing them to capacityto disrupt this framework, compete through meaningful cus- handing theleverto the consumer. tomer relationships rather than "Brands must now focus on creat- sheer data volume.A comprehen- ing value exchanges where con-  sive ground-up approach will Iay sumers willingly share data the foundation for effective Iong- because they see tangible benefits, term compliance, adds Mayuran not just becausetheyhave no other. Palanisamy, partner, Deloitte India. choice, says Surendra Singh, CEO, Ambika Sharma, founder & Brand Street Integrated. chief strategist, Pulp Strategy,says The push for stringent data pro- while small businesses might face tection Iaws mirrors global trends some early hurd Ies in the form of akin to European Union's Genera! high compliance cost, in the Iong Do$ Data Protection Regulation(GDPR) Don't run, these regulations will foster that protects the privacyand secu- CDon't rely on vagueor rity of personal data."While laws informed consent. brands to build deeperrelation- implied consent? exist, the real challenge is not just lnvest in robust consent.  ships with consumers by focusing their creation but howwell theyare CAvoid overcollecting data  on transparency and offering gen-  management platforms  implemented and enforced, says Don't ig nore user requests to. uine value, she says. Coffer value in returnfor data Chandan Bagwe, founder & direc- withdraw.consent Going forward, brands must tor of C Com Digital. align with what Hemal Majithia, founder, Oktomind,referstoas the Time to rebuild trust CARE framework of communica- The overwheIming consensus ligent as opposed to mass data," grantingit.That will force brands stated purpose. It cannot be tion comprising clarity, among marketers is that the says Dhruv Suri, partner at PSA to redraw the line between pri- shared without consent and accountability, relevance, and DPDP Act and Rules will not only Legal." With granularconsent lev- vacy and commerce."Marketers must be deleted afterthreeyears. engagement *Marketers can no reshape how individual brands els,only genuinelyinterested con- thrive on data to achieve maxi- "That adds another layer ofoper- Ionger rely on vague consent or communicate with their con-. sumers will opt-in,improving the  mum reach. The proposed DPDP ational complexity, says Chan- indefinite data retention. The sumers but will challenge the probability of conversions." Rules will require the industryto dan Bagwe,founder & director of DPDP Act asks us to clearlycom- broaderadvertising ecosystem.To Contextual advertising will adapt by fine-tuning and updat- C Com Digital. municate why we're collecting start with, the Rules mandate a  probably bea bigger deal now than ing their systems, notes Raj Not just complexity, for mar-  data, how Iong we'll store it, and shift from implied consent to hyper-personalisation. In other Ramachandran, partner at JSA keters, these requirements trans- how it benefits the user. This isn't explicit opt-ins. Pre-checked words, there could be a consider- Advocates & Solicitors. Iate into additional costs. The cost just compliance; it's about foster- boxes and vague consent mecha- able shift away from targeting Seemingly straightforward of storinginformation, maintain- ing trust," he asserts. The three- nisms will be things of thepast By customers based on their profiles forms that collect basic informa-  ing inventory across systems like year data retention limit will push prioritising user privacy and gran- andinstead focus on what they are tion, such as names and email email, WhatsApp, and websites,  them to focus on the value of expe- ular consent, it will encourage already searching for or consum- add re sses,will fall under the Act's and categorising it accurately is riences and products, which ulti- marketers to focus on genuine ing online. purview. Once collected, con- significant Even the deletion mately builds deeper customer Ieads."Marketers and advertisers Additionally, withdrawing sumer data must remain process requires either automa- trust, sums up Pathik Patel,  are far more likely torely on intel- consent must be as seamless as confidential and used for the. tion or manual intervention, founder, D2C brand Fit & Flex.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210721.png]
FROMTHE FRONT PAGE Growth engine runs out of steam THAT REPRESENTS A IOss of  aIso likely to be sharply higher HOW THEY STACK UP 6.4% growth over the period, thisyearascomparedto 2023. against an average annual 24...this impacted net taxes' Sector-wise GVA (% chg, y-o-y) growth of 6%. growth too, he added In April- TAgri, forest & fishing Construction)e Financial, real estate, etc The NsO has estinated November of 2024-25, the  nominal GDPexpansion for the FY23 4.7 FY23 9.1 expenditure on major subsi- current year at 9.7%, against dies was up 15% on year. 10.5% projected in the Union |FY24 1.4 FY24 8.4 FY23 Whereas, in 2023-24, the full Budget 2024-25. This means j FY25 3.8 FY25 7.3 year's outlaywas down 22%. fiscal deficit would be margin- (FAE) (FAE) Despite demand drivers allyhigherthan the estinated Manufacturinge beingrelativdysimilarin 2023- Trade, hotels, transport etc Public administration etc IeveI of 4.94% of the GDP,if FY24 24 and 2024-25,the overall FY23 -2.2 other Budget numbers hold, or FY23 8.9 growth this yearis much Iower, 12 require an expenditure reduc- FY24 : 9.9 due to the element of discrep.  tion of 13,000 crore given the FY24 7.8 ancies between demand and budgeted level of receipts. FY25 FY25 FY23 FY24 FY25 5.3 FY25 outputsideestimates-()2.14 (FAE) 9.1 However, the revised esti- ,(FAE) (FAE) I (FAE) Iakh crore in FY25 compared to  matesof deficits to be unveiled 1.29 trillion in 2023-24, India in the Budget 2025-26 on Feb- capital expenditure may dow a 2024-25,comparedwith 9%in  H2, the sector is seen growing Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) ruary 1 could still be at or less bit, while some tax giveaways 2023-24. Government final at 6.1%, helped prinarily by Said in a note. than the BElevels.Accordingto aimed at boosting consumption consumption expenditure is  a likely recovery in domestic GDP (output) growth last official sources, the Centre's isexpectedinthe Budget. estimated to grow at 4.1% this demand conditions,they said. year was 4.2 percentage points capital expenditure will likdy To be sure,even as the real year, compared with 2.5% in With above normal mon- higher than demand-side esti- fall shortofthe FY25 target of GDP growth is seen to plum- 2023-24.However,manyecon- soon, agriculture growth is mate,whilein the current fiscal, 11.11 lakh crore by <60,000 met this yearto thelowest level omists have expressed concems expected to improveto 3.8% the headline figure is 2 pps crore to <1 Iakh crore. since the pandemic abyss,the about the H2 growth prospects in 2024-25, after slowing Iower. Net exports, on the other With a capex shortfall of  principal expenditure compo- *We think H2FY25 may face down to 1.4% in 2023-24. In  hand,is expected toadd 1.7 pps 60,000 crore against Budget, nent of GDP,private finaI con-.  downward pressure,implyinga H2,the sectoris seen growth at. togrowthin 2024-25.In FY24, fiscal deficit would fiscal come sum ption, is estim ated to grow downside risk to FY25 AE of 4.5% as against 2.7% in H1, it had contributed negatively to inat4.8%,goingbytheadvance at 7.3% in 2024-25,compared 6.4%, amid weaker participa- with healthy reservoir Ievels growth by about 2 pps. estimate of nominaI GDP. That with 4% in 2023-24. That tion of private economic and favourable soil moisture Meanwhile,the shortfall of signals a rathertight Budget, as shows an average annual agents, said Madhavi Arora,  conditions likely supporting 2.26 Iakh crore in nominal the year-on-year growth of growth of 5.4% since 2018- Iead economist, EmkayGlobal. rabioutput. GDP is likely to translate to a  Budget sizeis anywayprojected 19. Analysts, however, cau- Themanufacturingoutput "Net taxes growth in 2024- Iower grostax revenue(GTR) by to be8.5%overyear,even below tioned that while the Iatest  is expected to expand by 5.3% 25 is seen sharply Iower on 2.32 lakh crore,said DKSrivas- thenominal GDPgrowth rate. annual growth rate shows an for 2024-25.0 account ofhighbase(19.1% in tava, chief policy advisor, EY Asperthemedium-termfis- uptick, the instant consump- Uneven consumer demand 2023-24),and slowermomen- India. *However, part of this cal consolidation road map,the tion momentum in the econ- and cheaper imports from tum in indirect tax collections short fall may be made up by an fiscal deficitrequirestobebelow omy, as manifest in various China (owing to overcapacity so far," said Abhishek Upad- increase in buoyancy. For the 4.5% in 2025-26. It is widely high-frequency indicators, thereJimpacted theprofitabil- hyay, senior economist, ICICI first eight months of FY25, expected that the Cen tre would Gross fixed capitaI forma- ity of domestic manufacturers. Securities Primary Dealership growth in GTR is 10.7%, he  stick to this plan in the coming tion, a dose proxy of invest-. in the first half, said HDFC (1-SEC PD). Said. The Budget has pegged Budget. The pace of increase in  ments,is seen to grow 6.4%in Bank economistsina report In "The outlay on subsidies is GTRgrowth at 10.8%

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 210747.png]
Vi planning phased 5G rollout, says CEO FE BUREAU Mumbai, Janvary 7 VODAFONE IDEA IS preparing ASHAYHOONDRA for aphased 5Grollout, and will CQVDOUONEDA Jaunch new tariffplansin 2025, Thefuturersherd thetelco's CEO AkshayMoondra We are preparing fora wrote to Vi customers in and emailed newyear greeting. phased rolloutof5G, He added that through its bringingyou blazing-fast partnerships with Ericsson, speed and unparalleled Nokia and Samsung, the tdco willprovide a supercharged net- @xperiences work experience, as it set s about executive its three-year invest- ment plan fornetworkupgrada- agement has yet togive details metered 5G plansand packs. tion. "The future is here! We are on the strategy of therollout, or He said in his new year preparing for the phased rollout pricingstrategyfor 5G.Moondra address that the telco will of 5G,bringing you blazing-fast has in the past indicated that Launchtailored plansforitscus. speeds and unparalleled experi- Vodafone Idea will need to look tomers. "Recognsing your ences"Moondra said. atpricingfor5G differentlythan needsare unique,we are launch- Vodfone Idea has previously its peerssince it is alate ent rant. ingnew,first-of-their-kind tar. stated that it will launch 5G ser- Analysts and industryexecutives iff plans designed with you in vices by March 2025. The mun- beieve it may look at capped or mind, he wrote.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 211100.png]
CES2025 Nvidia unveils new O TECh TALK tech for gamers o Also announces said in a note to dlients. Huang also unveiled new first desktop PC gaming chips that use Nvidia's SON 'Blackwell'AI tech, which has MAx a Cherney helped propel its sales in data Si773N N3Hd31S 8 centres. The chips, which  January 7 Nvidia callsits RTx 50 series, Prouor aim to give video games  NVIDia HAs TaKen the wraps  movie-like graphics,especially off new products such as AI to in a field known as shaders'. better train robots and cars,  The newchipscan alsohelp souped-up gaming chips and game developers generate its first desktopcomputer,as it moreaccuratehumanfaces,an expounded upon its potential area where players are apt to Ravi Ahuja, president & CEOofSony Pictures, speaks during a to expand its business. notice even slight lyunrealistic  news conference, in Las Vegas AP At CES 2025, CEO Jensen features.Thechipswill rangein Huang laid out how the world's price from $549 to $1,999,  Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang with top models arriving on Dell rebrands, second-most valuable firm is AMD chips to bringingtechnology that pow- holds a shield designed to January 30 and lower-tier ersits Iucrative data centre AI look like a computer chip, models coming in February. the Apple way power Dell PCs chipsto consumer PCsand lap- at the CES 2025 REUt ers  Huang also showed off its tops. He also introduced what first desktop com puter, called Nvidia calls Cosmos founda- mos) will do for the world of Project DigiTs -- albeit a com- Dell technologies sIS ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES tion models that generate roboticsand industrial AI what  puter designed for computer  rebrandingits PCs in a manner (AMD), the second-biggest photo-realistic video which Llama 3 has done for enter-  programmers rather than reg. reminiscent ofApple's naming maker of computer processors,  can be used to train robotsand prise AI, Huang said. ular consumers. Costing  conventions in an effort by the mid its chipswillbe used byDell self-driving cars at a much Bank of America analyst $3,000 and running an Nvidia computer maker to spur for the first time in PCs sold to Iower cost than using conven- Vivek Arya said it remained to operating system based on demand. Decades-old product businesses. The chipmaker tional data. be seen whether the robotics Linux, it will feature the same names for PCs such as 'XPS' unveiled new processors it says Cosmoswill be made avail- pushwould significantly boost chip at the heart of the com- and 'Inspiron' will be killed will make AM D-based personal able on an "open licence", sim- Nvidia'ssales."Thechallengeis pany's data centre offerings in favour of simplified brand- computers the best at running ilarto Meta Platfoms Llama 3 .. making the products reliable but paired with a central ing around the word, Dell, AI software. Dell has decided to Ianguage models that have enough, cheap enough and processor built with help from in' its new generation use the chips in some of its becomewidelyused in thetech  pervasive enough to spawn Taiwan's MediaTek. of devices, it announced computers aimed at business industry."We really hope (Cos- crediblebusiness models, Arya ReuTERS on Monday. BLoOmBerg customers. bLoomBerg

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 211117.png]
Only 1 in 5 sees household income rising in'25: Study FE BUREAU FUTURE TENSE New Delhi, Janvary 7 ONLY 24% OR 1 out of every 16 Responses 5 Indians expects their - Likely to increase 0-25% household income to rise in Likely to increase but 2025, a survey released on can't say how much Tuesd ay showed. 28 -Likely to stay same The suivey by LocalCirdes, based on the responses of % 4r Likely to fall by 0-10% 16,111 persons, also revealed 12 -- Likely to fall by 10-25% that as much as 48% of households expect their eam-  Likely to fall by over 25% ings to drop by up to 25% in  Likely to fall but can't say the new year. 8 by how much Asked about their house- hold savings in 2025, only 27% said that they expect discretionary spending in expects the year-ahead price their savings to increase. On 2024,with retailers reporting and inflation to increase in the otherhand, 45% of house- Iower-t han-expected growth in the November survey com. holds surveyed expect up to a sales of dectronics, home appli- pared with the September 25% decline in savings this ances and personal vehides. 2024 round. calendar year.. Indian households expect Households' median per. "As households acoss the inflation to rise further while ception of current inflation country grapplewith this mas- consumer confidence has rose by 30 basis points (bps) sive squeeze, the Union Budget taken a knock due to aweak to 8.4%, compared with 8.1% 2025 must considersomeseri- sentiment, showed RBI's for-. in September. ous interventions that will ward-looking surveys in Median inflation expecta. assist them," LocaICirdes said November. The Iatest round of tion forthethreemonths'honi. in the report. the RBI survey of households zon moderated marginally by Alack of income growth in inflation expectations was 10 bps to 9.1%, whereas it most households, along with conducted from November2- inched up by10 bps to 10.1% consistently high food infla- 11.It showed that a somewhat forthe one-year period ahead, tion, Ied to Indians reducing Iarger share of respondents thecentral bank said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-01-08 211134.png]
Samsung g CEO touts AI fridges & washers yOOLim LEE ter connect the half-billion  approvalfor it shigh-bandwidth ate new products that people VHAN JONO-HEE  January 7 devices it sd Iseveryyear tohelp memory,or HBM,chips trans- haven't experienced before,said make up for missteps t hat have. CEO, SAMSUNG Iated to a loss of investor con-.  Han,a 36-year Samsungveteran SAmsung eLectronics iS cost it the lead fidence, despite a strong year widely credited for securing ramping upinvestmentinAIfor against big tech Samsung has a  fromitssmartphone group. Samsung's position as the consumerelectronics, betting rivalsinareassuch history of over- At CES, Samsung chose to world's top TV seller over nearly  on its ubiquitous presence in as top-end mem- coming numerous emphasise its advantage in two decades. Samsung also gadgets from smartphones to  ory and GenAI.  smart home tech. Unlike rivals announced anewAl initiative for crises and TVs to help it stake out a spot in South Korea's Apple, Amazon and Google,its TVs, which will compete with theAl arena. most valuable firm reinventing itself, home connectivity hubs are. Google's TV software and offer Samsung is counting onits saw its shares built directly into appliances real-time translation, content unique market position as a. slump by a third in. test to sell advanced mem- consumers are buying anyway. analysis and audio and video. Ieader in not justmobile devices 2024 as it failed to  oryforAlaccderators. UnderHan's Ieadership,thefim hancementspowered byAI. but also home appliances like  close the gapon Prolonged has beeninstallingAIchipsin its "Samsung has a history of refrigerators and washers, CEO compatriot delays in  fridges, washing machines and overcoming numerous crises Han Jong-Hee said in an inter- SK Hynix in securing robot vacuum dleaners. and reinventing itself, Hansaid. view.The companywantstobet- the con- Nvidia's *Ul timately,our goalis to cre- BLOOMBERG

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 151827.png]
Bomb threats to schools: Class 9 student apprehended Press Trust of India an officer said. gade team and a bomb An FIR was registered on NOIDA According to the police, squad were rushed to the behalf of one school under the student said he sent the schools after the school ad- Sections 212, 351(4), 352 of A 15-year-old student of emails because he did not ministration discovered the the BNS and 67 D of the IT Class 9 was apprehended want to attend school. He emails. The premises were Act, an officer said. It was for sending bomb threat used a Virtual Private Net- evacuated frst, and then found after investigation by emails to four schools in work (VPN) to hide his loca- thoroughly searched, but the surveillance team and Noida, the police said on tion and IP address so that nothing suspicious was cyber team that a student Thursday. the emails could not be found," Noida Deputy Com- of Class 9 was behind send- He was later presented traced, an officer said. missioner of Police (DCP) ing the fake email to the before the juvenile court, "A police team, a fire bri- Ram Badan Singh said. schools, he added.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 152415.png]
J&K Police to review Mirwaiz's security. Peerzada Ashiq SRINAGAR The Jammu and Kashmir Police is considering resto- ration of security cover for Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq days after his engagement with the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Waqf (Amend- Mirwaiz Umar Farooq ment) Bill 2024 and his outreach to migrant Kash- miri Pandits in New Delhi. with Kashmiri Pandits. The security review of. Online threats the Mirwaiz is under way, Official sources said the re- sources said. Given the cent two-week visit of the threat perception, the se- Hurriyat chairman and curity cover, which was Kashmir's chief cleric to withdrawn from the Mir- Delhi evoked sharp reac- waiz in 2019, may be res- tions from "different quar- tored soon. ters". Sources said the pol- The Mirwaiz was al- ice assessed the online lowed to travel to Delhi for threats made to the Mir- the first time since the waiz after his Delhi tour, Centre ended J&K's special especially his engagement status in 2019.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 152556.png]
Civilian dead after alleged police torture' in Jammu He was detained over false charges and forced into confession, says Mehbooba Mufti; another man was shot dead by the Army in Kashmir after allegedly speeding away from a checkpoint Peerzada Ashiq Iinks with militants. SRINAGAR/JAMMU They said he had even made a video inside a mos- civilian was shot que where he swore that dead by the Army he had never seen a mili- in north Kashmir's tant in the area. Baramulla after he alleged- Former J&K Chief Minis- ly sped away from a check- ter Mehbooba Mufti, in a point on Thursday. In Jam- post on X, said Din was de- mu'sKathua, another tained by the SHO of Billa- civilian was found dead af- war on false charges of be- ter allegedly facing torture ing an overground worker in police custody. (OGW). An official identified the "He was reportedly sub- victim in the Baramulla in- jected to brutal thrashing cident as Waseem Ahmad On duty: Jammu and Kashmir Police and BSF check a car during a and torture, forced into a Mir of Sopore. confession, and tragically search operation, in Samba on Wednesday. ANI The Army, in a state- found dead today. The area ment, said, "On February The Army said troops The police urged the pu- has been sealed off, and in- 5, 2025, based on a specific pursued the vehicle for ov- blic to maintain peace and ternet services have been intelligence input about er 23 km. "Shots were fired refrain from spreading cut, leading to widespread the movement of terro- aiming on tyres which misinformation regarding panic. There's an ongoing rists, a mobile vehicle forced the vehicle to halt. this incident. crackdown, with more in- check post was established After to a detailed search, In Kathua, a civilian, dividuals being picked up. by security forces. One the injured driver was im- who was allegedly tortured This incident appears to speeding suspicious civil mediately evacuated to Go- in police custody, was follow a troubling pattern truck was spotted. When vernment Medical College, found dead on Thursday. of targeting innocent challenged, the truck Baramulla, where he was According to the local peo- youths  on fabricated didn't stop despite repeat- declared dead." ple, Makhan Din, 25, from charges. I urge the Director ed warnings instead accel- The J&K police said it Billawar, was beaten up General of Police to initiate erated further while cross- has lodged an FIR at the and mentally tortured in an immediate investiga ing the check post." Baramulla police station. police custody over having tion, she said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 152615.png]
R10,147-crore worth contracts signed for Pinaka ammunition The Hindu Bureau A contract for NEW DELHI upgrades in Shakti software has also The Defence Ministry on been signed with Thursday signed contracts Bharat Electronics worth 210,147 crore for a variety of ammunition for Limited the Army's Pinaka Multiple Rocket Launch Systems (MRLS). The ammunition chanised forces, vehicles also enhances the range of and personnel, thereby de- the Pinaka systems. nying specific areas to the Contracts were inked enemy, the statement said. with Economic Explosives The upgraded Pinaka is Limited (EEL) and Muni- going to be the mainstay of tions India Limited (MIL) the~Army's long range for the procurement of rocket artillery. Area Denial Munition Last November, the De- (ADM) Type-1 and High Ex- fence Research and Deve- plosive Pre-Fragmented lopment Organisation (HEPF)-Mk-1 (enhanced) (DRDO) announced the rockets respectively for Pi- successful completion of naka MRLS at a total cost of flight tests of guided Pina- t10,147 crore, a Ministry ka rockets of 75 km paving statement said. the way for its induction A contract for upgrades doubling the original in Shakti software has also range. Work is on to en- been signed with Bharat hance the range to 120 km Electronics Limited (BEL). and further to 300 km. The ADM Type-1 ammu- The fully automated 214- nition has a specialised mm Pinaka MRLS battery warhead to deliver a quan- can deliver a salvo of 72 tum of sub-munitions over rockets on the target up to a larger area targeting me- 75 km in 44 seconds.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 152641.png]
IAF's Mirage 2000 crashes near Gwalior after system malfunction; pilots safe The Hindu Bureau BHOPAL An Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft, a twin-seater Mir- age 2000, crashed on Thursday in Shivpuri dis- trict of Madhya Pradesh af- ter a system malfunction. Both pilots safely ejected before the accident, auth- orities said. The IAF said the fighter 1n flames: The Mirage 2o00 aircraft of the IAF crashed near Shivpuri plane was out on a routine during a routine training sortie, in Gwalior on Thursday. ANI sortie and crashed after en- countering a system mal- airbase and crashed near. local person suffered inju- function. Karera town. The authori- ries in the incident. "Local The IAF said in a post on ties were alerted by the lo- police, an ambulance, and X that an inquiry had been cal people who spotted the a fire tender reached the. ordered to ascertain the plane in a field, he added. spot immediately, he said. cause of the accident. Mr. Rathore said the two Videos from the crash The plane crashed pilots had safely ejected site surfaced on the Inter-. around 2.30 p.m. near Su-. from the plane before the net showing the aircraft in nari village in the Karera crash and received minor pieces and flames. police station limits, ac- injuries. A team of IAF offi- The IAF operates three cording to the local police. cials arrived in Shivpuri on squadrons of the Mirage Shivpuri Superinten- a helicopter and airlifted 2000 fighters, manufac- dent of Police (SP) Aman the pilots back to the base, tured by Dassault Aviation Singh Rathore told The he added. of France, which have Hindu that the plane had Additional SP Sanjeev since been upgraded, and taken off from the Gwalior Mule told reporters that no are based at Gwalior.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 152810.png]
Firing  between Army and militants at LoC. creased in the area and searches ARUNSHARMA are currently ongoing. JAMMU,FEBRUARY8 The alleged infiltration at- tempt comes at a time when SUSPECTED MILITANTS hiding in Jammu has generally been seeing forests inside Pakistan-occupied an increase in militant activity. Kashmir (PoK) Saturday after- Significantly, the site of firing. noon fired at Indian soldiers pa- falls near Battal in Krishna Ghati trolling on their side of the Line of sectorof adjoining Poonch district Control(LoC)in the border Rajouri where a number of militants had district in Jammu, security sources reportedly died in a landmine ex- said. According to sources, the at- plosion on the morning of tempted infiltration bid took place February5. AIthough the security at 2 pm near a forward village in forces had no numbers on how the Keri sector, when some mili- many militants were killed in the tants believed to be hiding in a explosion, sources claimed that wooded area in PoK opened fire five militants were previously at a patrol team from the Indian seen lurking in the area.. Army, who retaliated. According to sources, the ex- There were no casualties on plosion took place on a route used the Indian side, the sources said, by militants to infiltrate into J&K adding that security was in- from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153033.png]
PALESTINIAN MILITANT group Hamas handed over three Israeli hostages on Saturday, whose gaunt appearance shocked TLieg Jg$wgLgblgej Israelis, while Israel began free- ing dozens of Palestinians in the. latest stage of a ceasefire deal WER O:EELQOD aimed at ending the 15-month war in Gaza. Ohad Ben Ami and Eli Sharabi, both taken hostage from Kibbutz Be'eri during the cross- border Hamas-led attack on October 7,2023, and Or Levy, ab- ducted that day from the Nova music festival, were led onto a Hamas podium by gunmen.  The three men all appeared thin, weak and pale, and in worse condition than the 18 hostages who had previously been freed under the truce agreed last month. Israeli captives, from left to right, Ohad Ben Ami, Eli Sharabi and Or Levy with Hamas fighters "He looked like a skeleton, it before being handed over to the Red Cross in Gaza Strip on Saturday. Reuters was awful to see," Ohad Ben Ami's mother-in-law, Michal Cohen, told Channel 13 News as vehicles to Israeli forces. "We have to get ALL THE welcomed by a cheering crowd. she watched the Hamas-di- Israeli Prime Minister HOSTAGES out of hell," it said. Among those freed was Eyad rected handover ceremony,  Benjamin Netanyahu said the Abu Shkaidem, sentenced to 18 Palestinians complain which included the hostages an- sight of the frail hostages was life terms in Israel for master- swering questions posed by a shocking and would be ad- of ill-treatment minding suicide attacks in re- masked man as militants armed dressed. venge for Israel's 2004 assassi- with automatic rifles stood on Israel's President Isaac  In exchange for the hostages'  nations of Hamas leaders. each side. Herzog described the release release, Israel is freeing 183 "Today, I am reborn,"  In another show of force by ceremony as cynical and vicious.  Palestinian prisoners, some con- Shkaidem told reporters upon Hamas, which has paraded fight- "This is what a crime against hu- victed of involvement in attacks arrival in Ramallah, as the crowd. ers during previous releases, manity looks like," he said. that killed dozens of people, as cheered. Many of the prisoners dozens of its militants deployed The Hostage Families Forum well as 111 detained in Gaza dur- freed appeared in poor health in central Gaza as it handed said the images of the three ing the war. and some complained of ill- hostages over to the International. hostages evoked images of sur- In Ramallah, in the Israeli-oc- treatment. "The occupation hu- Committee of the Red Cross. vivors of Nazi concentration cupied West Bank, a bus carrying miliated us for over a year," said They were then driven in ICRC camps during the Holocaust. 42 freed Palestinian prisoners was Shkaidem.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153053.png]
IRAN Khamenei meetstop Hamas leaders Tehran: Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei met with acting Hamas leader Khalil al- Hayya and twoother lead- ers ofthe Palestinian group in Tehran on Saturday, Iranian state TV reported. "You defeated the Zionist regime [Israel], which was in fact America's defeat," Khamenei, whose country supports Hamas in its war with Israel, told the Palestinian delegation. They expressed gratitude for Iran's continued sup- port. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153111.png]
Let's do a deal, says Zelenskyy, offers US rare earths for security REUTERS KYIV,FEBRUARY 8 UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT Volodymyr Zelenskyy pored over a once-classified map of vast deposits of rare earths and other critical minerals during an interview with Reuters on Friday, part of a push to appeal to Donald Trump's penchant for a deal. The US president, whose ad- ministration is pressing for a rapid end to Ukraine's war with Russia, said on Monday he Ukrainian police officersevacuate people from the frontline wanted Ukraine to supply the US towns and villages in Donetsk on Friday. Reuters with rare earths and other min- erals in return for financiallysup- porting its war effort.. investment by allies last autumn, cupation.e "If we are talking about a as it presented a "victory plan" Rare earths are important in deal, then let's do a deal, we are that sought to put it in the the manufacture of high-per- only for it," Zelenskyy said, em- strongest position for talks and formance magnets, electric mo- phasising Ukraine's need for se- force Moscow to the table. tors and consumer electronics; curity guarantees from its allies Zelenskyy said less than 20% Zelenskyy said Moscow could as part of any settlement.. of Ukraine's mineral resources, open those resources to its allies Ukraine floated the idea of including about half its rare earth North Korea and Iran, both opening its critical minerals to deposits, were under Russian oc- sworn US enemies.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153144.png]
Israel tells Army to prepare. for 'departure' of Gazans Trump had proposed that U.S. 'take over' Gaza to relocate residents, sparking major international. condemnation; Palestinians firmly reject any forced exile, asserting their right to remain in Gaza Reuters tinians to repeatedly move  JERUSALEM around within Gaza, seek- ing safety. But many say  srael's Defence Minis- they will never leave the ter ordered the Army enclave because they fear on Thursday to pre- permanent displacement, pare a plan to allow the like the "Nakba", or catas- "voluntary departure" of trophe, when hundreds of residents from Gaza, after thousands were dispos- U.S. President  Donald sessed from homes in the Trump drew widespread war at the birth of the state condemnation for an- of Israel in 1948. nouncing plans to take ov- er the strip. Driven out Defence Minister Israel Last resort: Palestinians take shelter in tents set up amid heavily. Many were driven out or Katz hailed Mr. Trump's  damaged buildings in Jabalia in the northern Gaza Strip. AFP. fled to Gaza, the West Bank announcement that the and neighbouring Arab United States would aim to and emigrate, as is the sues in the West Asia. states including to Jordan, take control of Gaza, reset- norm around the world," Forced or coerced dis- Syria and Lebanon, where tle the more than 2 million Mr. Katz said on X. He said placement of a population their descendants still live Palestinians living there his plan would include exit under military occupation in refugee camps. Israel  and transform the territory options via land crossings, is a war crime, banned un-. disputes the account that into the "Riviera of the as well as special arrange- der the 1949 Geneva they were forced out. Middle East". ments for departure by sea Conventions. Mr. Katz said countries "I welcome President and air. Israeli strikes which who have opposed Israel's Trump's bold plan, Gaza Displacement of Palesti- killed tens of thousands of military operations in Gaza residents should be al- nians is one of the most people over the past 16 should  take in  the lowed the freedom to leave sensitive and explosive is- months have forced Pales-  Palestinians.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153233.png]
France sends. Mirage 2000 fighter jets to Ukraine. Agence France-Presse PARIS France has delivered a first consignment of Mirage 2000-5 fighter jets to Uk- raine to help Kyiv defend its airspace against Russia, Defence Minister Sebastien Lecornu said on X on Thursday. Ukrainian leader Volo- dymyr Zelenskyy hailed the delivery, which comes amid fears of decreasing support from Washington since U.S. President Do- Trump's inauguration. Of the 26 Mirage 2000-5 aircraft owned by the French air force, six were to be transferred to Uk- raine, according to a Bud- get report published by France's Lower House of Parliament.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153246.png]
At least 80 killed as Army, militant outfit clash in Sudan; UN warns of catastrophe' Agence France-Presse Movement-North (SPLM- Army and SPLM-N since April 2023, creating a PORT SUDAN N) led by Abdel Aziz have accused each widespread humanitarian al-Hilu. other of launching crisis. Mr. Hilu's unaffiliat- The United  Nations United Nations resident ed faction of the SPLM-N attacks, and warned on Thursday that and humanitarian coordi- has clashed with both targeting civilians two southern Sudan states nator in Sudan Clementine since the war broke out. In were "on the brink of ca- Nkweta-Salami said the. recent days, the Army and tastrophe" after a recent fighting had reportedly the SPLM-N have accused eruption of violence re- claimed at least 80 lives in cluding children," the UN's each other of launching at- portedly killed at least 80 South Kordofan state capi- most senior official in the tacks and targeting civi- people in one city.. tal Kadugli alone. country said in a Iians in an attempt to cap. Renewed fighting broke "I condemn the report- statement. ture territory.. out last week in the states ed use of women and chil- Sudan's Army and its The UN warned the es- of South Kordofan and dren as human shields in main rival, the paramili- calating violence would Blue Nile between the Ar-. Kadugli, the obstruction of tary Rapid Support Forces only worsen the already my and a faction of the Su- humanitarian aid, and the. (RSF), have been at war for dire humanitarian dan People's Liberation detention of civilians in- control of the country situation.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153632.png]
Rwandan, Congolese leaders meet over eastern DRC conflict, call for ceasefire Agence France-Presse gether the eight countries BUKAVU of the East African Com- munity (EAC) and 16-mem- Rwandan President Paul ber South African Develop- Kagame and his Congolese ment Community (SADC). counterpart Felix Tshise- Mr. Tshisekedi appeared kedi joined a summit in via video call. Tanzania on   Saturday "We call on all parties to where regional leaders actualise the ceasefire, and called for an "immediate specifically on the M23 to ceasefire" in the Democrat- halt further advancement ic Republic of Congo. and the armed forces of The  Rwanda-backed Leaders before attending the Extraordinary Joint Regional Summit DRC to cease all retaliatory M23 armed group has ra- at the State House in Dar es Salaam on Saturday. AFP measures," said Kenyan pidly seized swathes of ter- President William Ruto, ritory in the mineral-rich The group took the stra- decades-long turmoil in current chair of the EAC. eastern Democratic Repu- tegic city of Goma, capital the region. The Presidents of Ke- blic of Congo in an offen- of North Kivu province,  Mr. Kagame took part in nya,  Somalia, Uganda, sive that has left thousands last week and is pushing in- person at the summit in Zambia and Zimbabwe dead and displaced vast to neighbouring South Ki- the Tanzanian city of Dar were among those present numbers. vu in the latest episode of es Salaam that brought to- when the summit began.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153733.png]
Delhi & Noida schools get bomb threat emails EXPRESSNEWSSERVICE Ahlcon NEW DELHI,FEBRUARY7 International School in AT LEAST two private schools in Mayur Vihar Delhi and Noida and Delhi received a hoax University's St Stephen's College threat email in the Capital received bomb on Friday. threats over emails on Friday, Praveen Khanna prompting security agencies to conduct checks at the premises. According to sources in the po- highly appreciated. The compe- email. Our cyber team is working lice, Ahlcon International School tent authorities are being con- to arrest the sender." in East Delhi's Pandav Nagar and tacted for furtherinstructionsand  This is the latest in a series of Shiv Nadar School in Noida re- clearance," it stated. bomb threat emails sent to ceived the bomb threat emails. The Shiv Nadar School also is- schools in Delhi-NCR over the past Soon after receiving the informa- sued a statement to the parents, few months -- all were declared tion, the bomb detection team, saying: "This is to share that we hoaxes and students were appre- disposal squad, dog squad, fire de-  have received a threat to the safety hended in several cases. partment officials, and local police of students on campus. We are On Thursday, a 15-year-old reached the spot, a police officer therefore closing the campus student of a private school was ap- said, adding that nothing suspi-  down for the day, Friday, February  prehended by the Noida Police for cious had been found so far. 7, in order to complete a sweep to allegedlysending hoax emails re- Ahlcon International School is- ensure safety for all. Please keep garding the presence of bombs in sued a statement to parents over your child at home to support this. four schools on Wednesday. the threat. "Due to anemail threat  Those who have already boarded "He did not want to go to received this morning, we are the bus will be sent back home school and, therefore, planned to compelled to close school today with immediate effect." send an email threat to all four keeping the safetyof our students DCP(Noida)Ram Badan Singh schools, except for his to avoid in mind. Your patience and coop- said, "It is suspected that some being caught," Ram Badan Singh eration in this regard shall be mischievous element sent the had said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153903.png]
One killed in shooting linked. to drug gangs. Brussels: Gunfire in. Brussels killed one person Friday in what Belgian of- ficials said was the fourth shooting in the past week believed linked to drug gangs, prompting a gov- ernment vow to boost po- lice on the city's streets. It was the first fatal shooting in the spate of violence in the Anderlecht and St. Josse neighbourhoods. Officials said they all had the hallmarks of drug-re- lated violence, not terror- ism. "It is more than likely that the shootings are linked," Prosecutor General Frederic Van Leeuw said.  PTI

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153915.png]
59 Sri Lankans recruited by Russian army died in Ukraine, minister tells Parliament told parliament here on Friday. Herath said adding, Colombo has PRESS TRUST OF INDIA "According to the informa- been continuing its talks with COLOMBO, FEBRUARY7 tion received by January 20 this the Russians to delist and send year, 554 were recruited for the them back. AT LEAST 59 of the 554 Sri Russian military service," Herath Sri Lanka also pressed the Lankans have perished in the said. Russians to discontinue the re- Ukraine war fighting for Russia, There was no forcible enlist- cruitment of Sri Lankans to fight Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath ing of the Sri Lankans by Russia,  in the war..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153925.png]
Khamenei says Iran's proposed nuclear talks with US are 'not wise ASSOCIATEDPRESS Iran's supreme DUBAI, FEBRUARY 7 leader Ayatollah Ali IRAN'S SUPREME leader said Khamenei Friday that negotiations with America "are not intelligent, wise or honorable" after President ing nuclear program in exchange Donald Trump floated nuclear for the lifting of crushing eco- talks with Tehran. Ayatollah Ali nomic sanctions worth billions of. Khamenei also suggested that  dollars. "there should be no negotiations The Iranian rial sunk to a with such a government," but record lowof 8,72,000 rials to$1 stopped short of issuing a direct. in aftermarket trading.What. order not to engage with happens next remains unclear, Washington. particularly Ias1  reformist Khamenei's remarks upend President Masoud Pezeshkian months of signals from Tehran to promised as recently as the United States that it wanted to Thursday to enter into a dialogue negotiate over its rapidly advanc- with the West.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 153944.png]
UK's Royal Navy expands ceremonial dress code to include sari  naval mess functions already cov-  sonnel to understand how widen-  ets with trousers, a tartan kilt or. tural backgrounds," Retired Rear ADITI KHANNA ers Scottish, rish, Welsh, Cornish  ing existing policy on cultural a skirt. Now, the network hopes  Admiral Philip Mathias said in re- LONDON, FEBRUARY7  and Manx heritage, represented  mess dress would make them feel Royal Navy officers will be able  sponse to Kanani's social media  through the wearing of kilts and  able to celebrate both their RN and  to celebrate their heritage by.  announcement THE UK's Royal Navy has ex- tartan dresses. cultural heritage," he said.  wearing items such as a sari or The Royal Navy's Race "As Chair of the Royal Navy *The update in policy now  panded its mess dress code pol-  an African outfit coupled with Diversity Network defended the icy for formal and ceremonial oc-  Race Diversity Network (RN- widens that to be inclusive of  their jacket, shirt and bow tie.  expansion of the dress code as casions to include ethnic outfits,  RDN), it gives me great pleasure. other British cultures that serve The move has attracted some "reflective of the diverse work-  including the sari, to reflect  to announce that existing Royal within the RN," he added. criticism, with one veteran say- force that serve within it". wider forms of the country's cul-  Navy (RN) cultural mess dress In a social media post, he il-  ing it exposes the "Royal Navy to It also clarified that animage tural identity.. ridicule". "The reason for uniform  policy has just been updated to  lustrated this change by an hon-  accompanying the post on social Lance Corporal Jack Kanani,  include wider forms of British  orary female captain wearing a  in adisciplined fighting serviceis  media was taken during an ear- chair of the Royal Navy's Race cultural identity," said Kanani. white sari, with a white shirt and to achieve a common identity, lier research phase of the Diversity Network, recently made "The RNRDN's initiative, bow tie along with her mess. not to accentuate the differ-. Cultural Equivalent initiative and the announcement of the update coined the Cultural Equivalent ini- jacket. Regulations for naval ences... Rather than running a not illustrative of how different to the dress code as part of the  tially began over two years ago. The move has attracted some criticism, with one veteran  mess dress have strict rules for  fashion parade, what this team forms of cultural dress will be force's wider"Cultural Equivalent"  The Network canvased opinions saying it exposes the 'Royal Navy to ridicule. AP  above the waist, requiring all of-  should have been doing is to help  worn with mess dress under the initiative. The existing code for  fromethnic minorityservice per- ficers to sport their uniformjack- recruit sailors from diverse cul- updated regulations. Ud

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154201.png]
Nine submarines, 65 ships taking part in TROPEX exercise The Hindu Bureau This is conducted bien- NEW DELHI nially with participation by all operational units of the Indian Navy's biennial cap. Navy along with participa. stone Theatre Level Opera- tion of Army, Air Force, tional Exercise (TROPEX) and Coast Guard assets. is under way in the Indian "TROPEX-25 is aimed at Ocean Region, in which validating Indian Navy's the combined fleet, com- core warfighting skills, and prising approximately 65 ensuring a synchronised, Indian Navy ships, nine integrated response to pre- submarines, and over 80 serve and protect national aircraft, are being "put maritime security interests through complex maritime in a contested maritime en- operational scenarios to vironment against conven- validate and refine the Na- tional, asymmetric as well vy's Concept of as hybrid threats," the Na- Operations". vy said in a statement.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154411.png]
Forest personnel conduct search for leopard cubs on Tirupati university campus. The Hindu Bureau TIRUPATI Amid suspicion over the. presence of leopard cubs on the Sri Venkateswara University (SVU) campus in Tirupati, the Andhra Pradesh Forest Depart- ment conducted a "peram- bulation" across the spraw-. ling campus. shere on Wednesday. On the move: Forest officials and university staff surveying the Accompanied by the un- campus on Wednesday. K.V. POORNACHANDRA KUMAR iversity's security person- nel, the forest guards con- 4.30 p.m. but they could ture the elusive leopard ducted the exercise to not find any trace of leo- that has been making fo survey the entire campus. pard cubs. rays into the campus regu- The exercise started at Four cages were placed larly from the abutting Ti- 10.30 a.m. and ended at. across the campus to cap-. rumala forests.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154431.png]
Narcotics network backing. infiltrators in J&K, says Shah. Union Home Minister directs all security agencies to step up fight against terrorism by aiming for the zero infiltration goal; he adds that it should be a goal to uproot the existence of terrorists. Vijaita Singh mar Deka; Director-Gener- NEW DELHI al of Police J&K Nalin Prabhat; and other senior U I nion Home Minis- officials. A day ago, Mr. ter Amit Shah on Shah held a review meet- Wednesday said ing with the Chief of the Ar- that the narcotics network my Staff, General Upendra was providing support to Dwivedi. infiltrators and terrorists in Mr. Shah directed the Jammu and Kashmir. He agencies to make fresh ap- said that there was a need pointments to the posts at to initiate prompt action the Forensic Science Labo-. with alacrity and rigour  ratory in view of the timely against terror funding from implementation of the new the proceeds of narcotics Routine scrutiny: Amit Shah chairs a high-level review meeting in criminal laws. New Delhi on Wednesday on the security situation in J&K. PTI. Emphasising the go- trade. Mr. Shah, who reviewed vernment's "policy of zero the security situation in all security agencies to take The meeting was attend- tolerance" against terro- the Union Territory on more stringent action on ed by the Lieutenant-Go- rism, the Minister directed Wednesday, directed all se- infiltration and acts of ter-. vernor of Jammu and Kash- all security agencies to re- curity agencies to step up ror with a ruthless ap- mir, Manoj Sinha; Union main vigilant and continue the fight against terrorism proach. He said that it Home Secretary Govind to work in synergy to elim- by aiming for the "zero in- should be a goal to uproot Mohan; Intelligence Bu- inate terrorism in Jammu filtration" goal. He asked the existence of terrorists. reau Director Tapan Ku- and Kashmir.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154445.png]
Stryker infantry vehicle deal with the U.S. progresses; Javelin to be re-demonstrated Dinakar Peri Ladakh last September-Oc- hundred vehicles in two NEW DELHI tober and the report has stages. Direct import of subsequently been shared small number of Strykers Against the backdrop of with the Army Headquar- in the first stage and li- U.S.  President  Donald ters for further action, ac- cense manufacture of a Trump's remarks to Prime cording to the sources. bulk of them, with some Minister Narendra Modi The performance of the customisations, in India that India should buy more vehicles was demonstrated likely by defence public military equipment from in high-altitude conditions sector undertaking Bharat them and amid the upcom- between 13,000 and Earth Movers Limited. ing visit of Mr. Modi to 18,000 feet which also saw The Stryker deal is ex- Washington DC next week, the testing of the Javelin pected to figure in the con- several defence deals in Anti-Tank Guided Missile versations during Mr. Mo- the pipeline are in focus, (ATGM), two sources said. Infantry carrier: A Stryker armoured vehicle used by the U.S. Army di's U.S. visit along with the among them the deal for And given some shortcom- during their final days in Iraq. FiLE PHOTOe deal for license manufac- co-production of Stryker ings, last month a commu- ture of General Electric infantry combat vehicles. nication was sent and re-. pected to validate that. In- al defence officials stated. F-414 jet engines in India The' performance of trials are now awaited any- dia has already sent a com- However, the Stryker var- and the long delays in de- Stryker in high-altitude time, the sources stated. munication to the U.S. side iant with the Javelin ATGM liveries of the F-404 en- conditions was  demon-. The Stryker with its dou- asking for repeat demon- is under development and gines for the Light Combat strated for the Indian Army ble-V hull performed opti- stration of the Javelin, is expected to be demon- Aircraft (LCA)-Mk1A which and negotiations are mak- mally, one of the sources another source said, and strated to India in the near has delayed the delivery ing progress, according to said, adding that the Jave- the schedule is being future, it has been learnt. and induction schedule. sources in the know. lin's performance was not worked out. The U.S. has in the past The Stryker, manufac- at the optimum level, The Army has identified Assembling in India demonstrated both the tured by General Dynam- which was due to the age of. a key requirement for The envisaged plan, ac- Stryker as well as Javelin ics, has been evaluated in the system that being used ATGMs mounted on infan- cording to sources, is the ATGM to the Indian Army high-aItitude conditions of and repeat trials are ex- try combat vehicles, sever-  procurement of few  during bilateral exercises.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154456.png]
Pak. wants to resolve all issues with India: Sharif Press Trust of India ISLAMABAD Pakistan's Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif on Wednes-. day said the country wants to resolve all issues, includ- ing Kashmir, with India through talks as he reiterat- ed his "unwavering" sup- port for the Kashmiri people. Mr. Sharif made the re- marks while addressing a special session of the Pakis- tan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) Legislative Assembly in Muzaffarabad on the oc- casion of "Kashmir Solidar- ity Day", an annual Pakis- tani event to show support for the Kashmiris. "India should come out of the thinking of August 5, 2019, and fulfil promises made to the UN and Iaunch a dialogue," he added.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154546.png]
In the latest step toward eliminating colonial prac- tices and mindsets within the armed forces, Fort Wil- Iiam in Kolkata, the head- quarters of the Eastern Ar- my Command, has been renamed Vijay Durg. Addi- tionally, Kitchener House inside Fort william has been renamed Manekshaw Army officers gather at Fort House, and South Gate, Williams in Kolkata during the formerly known as St. Ge- Army Day celebrations. AP orge's Gate, is now Shivaji Gate. "vestiges of the colonial Wing Commander Hi- era" and "Indianising" mil- manshu Tiwari, the De- itary traditions and cus- fence Public Relations Of- toms - an initiative Prime ficer in Kolkata, has said Minister Narendra Modi the decision was made in has described as freedom mid-December and all in- from the mentality of ternal  communications slavery. have since ceased using In March 2022, while ad- "Fort william", adopting dressing the top military the new name instead. Ho- leadership at Kevadia in wever, the official announ- Gujarat, Prime Minister cement is still pending. Narendra Modi empha- Fort william, named af- sised the importance of en- ter King william IlI of En- hancing indigenisation in gland, was constructed by national defence -- not just the British in 1781. in terms of sourcing of The new name, Vijay equipment and weapons Durg, is derived from the but also in the doctrines, oldest fort along the Sind- procedures and customs hudurg coast in Maharash- practised by the armed tra. It served as a naval forces. base for the Marathas un- He urged the three ser- der Chhatrapati Shivaji. vices to "rid themselves of In recent years, there legacy systems and practic- have been a series of mea- es that have outlived utility sures aimed at removing and relevance"..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154630.png]
Russia claims to have captured two more villages in eastern and northeast Ukraine Agence France-Presse Baranivka, north of the MOSCOW town of Ocheretyne, where Russian forces have Russia on Wednesday said pressed for months. its forces have taken two Russia has almost daily more villages in east and claimed the capture of east northeast Ukraine as the Ukrainian villages. Mos- conflict between the two cow's offensive  has countries nears its third dragged on for three years anniversary and both sides this month.. try to press a ground ad- Meanwhile, Russia and vantage ahead of possible Ukraine each released 150 peace talks. captured soldiers in their Kyiv has struggled to latest prisoner-of-war ex- hold back larger Russian Field day: Ukrainian firefighters try to put out a fire in a building change, both sides said on forces, which have been after a drone strike in Kharkiv on Wednesday. AFP Wednesday. making steady advances in Separately, a blast at an the embattled east of Uk- es have crossed the Oskil in parts of the region and Army recruitment centre raine for months.. river that had previously where in recent weeks Rus- in western Ukraine killed Moscow's Defence Mi- separated the two armies. sian forces have esta- one person on Wednesday, nistry said troops took the The village lies in the blished a bridgehead and the latest in a string of such village of Novomlynsk in east of the Kharkiv region gained ground. incidents amid the coun- the northeastern Kharkiv on the Oskil river, which The Ministry also said try's divisive mobilisation region, where Russian forc- had marked the frontlines troops took the village of drive.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 154954.png]
Ukraine attempts offensive in western Kursk: Russia EXPLAINED REUTERS Why Russia MOSCOW,FEBRUARY 6 still faces O challenge RUSSIA'S DEFENCE ministry said Ukrainian troops attempted a counterattack on Thursday in THE FACT that Ukrainian  Russia's western Kursk region but forces are still capable of were repelled by Russian forces. launching significant at- The ministry said Ukrainian tacks in Kursk region. troops and armoured vehicles highlights the stiff chal- had launched several waves of Ienge that Russia faces to attacks near the villages of dislodge them, six Ulanok and Cherkasskaya months after they burst Konopelka, but that they were across the border to seize beaten back and the settlements a chunk of Russian terri- were under Russian control. tory last year... The fact that Ukrainian forces are still capable of launch- ing significant attacks in Kursk of Ukraine as the war ap- region highlights the stiff chal- proaches its three-year anniver- lenge that Russia faces to dis- sary on February 24.. lodge them, six months after Meanwhile, Ukraine's they burst across the border to Defence Minister Rustem seize a chunk of Russian terri- Umerov said Thursday the tory last year. Netherlands had delivered US- Ukraine's foothold in Kursk made F-16 fighters to Ukraine. has shrunk significantly since The aircraft, along with the immediate aftermath of the French Mirage jets, "will soon be- August 6 incursion but provides gin carrying out combat mis-  it with a useful bargaining chip sions, strengthening our de- in potential peace talks. fence", Umerov said on Russia controls about a fifth Facebook.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 155009.png]
Iran: Trump's plan follows Israeli scheme to 'wipe out' Palestinians REUTERS DUBAI,FEBRUARY 6 IRAN CATEGORICALLY rejects a proposal byUS President Donald Trump to relocate Palestinians from Gaza, foreign ministry spokesperson Esmail Baghaei said on Thursday.. On Tuesday, Trump said the US would take over the war-rav- aged Gaza Strip and develop it economically after Palestinians are resettled elsewhere, actions that would shatter decades of Iran's first drone-carrier warship, which, it says, is capable of U.S. policy toward the Israeli- operating in oceans far from its mainland. AP Palestinian conflict. "The plan to clear Gaza and relocate Palestinians to neigh- be pursued as it will create "a dif- and Organisation of Islamic bouring countries is considered ferent future for everyone.". Cooperation to take a clear a continuation of the Zionist "This idea is categorically re-. stance explicitly rejecting regime's (Israel) plan to com- jected and condemned due to its Trump's announcement. pletely wipe out the Palestinian clear contradiction with estab- On Wednesday, a senior people," Baghaei wrote on social lished principles and rules of in- Iranian official told Reuters that media website X. ternational law and human Tehran disagreed with any dis- Israel'sPM. Benjamin rights," Baghaei said in his state- placement of Gazans, but viewed Netanyahu said Trump's proposal ment. Baghaei called upon the this issue as a separate matter is"a remarkable idea" thatshould United Nations Security Council from potential Iran-US talks.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-09 155141.png]
Disregard for Kashmiri lives': Leaders after truck driver killed in Army firing during chase. police in Kathua ordered in- questioned the army's version  tween his home and the place (PDP) leader Itija Mufti has also BASHAARAT MASOOD  quiries after the custodial death  and demanded the release of where the incident happened is  questioned the Army's version. SRINAGAR,FEBRUARY 6 of a Gujjar youth in Kathua. CCTV footage of the incident. less than 16 km... theSPsahibsaid ...you(army)say that you chased  In its statement after the Significantly, there are several he was chased for 35 km... when  a civilian for 24 km..targeted the A CIVILIAN truck driver was truck driver's killing, the army's security camps and security  he had to go to Srinagar, why was tyre..How was he (Mirr) fatally killed in a firing incident involv- Chinar Corps said the driver check posts on the stretch. As per the vehicle in the (opposite) di- killed? I want to ask the army that ing Army personnel on the  jumped acheck post Wednesday Mir's cousin Abdul Rashid, Mir  rection, going to Baramulla. His Srinagar-Jammu national high- when he was asked to stop. "On had left home at 10 pm clothes were in the dirt. We want way near Sopore in Kashmir. Feb 5, 2025, based on a specific Wednesday with a truck full of to know if they had beaten..him  Peoples Conference chairman While the Army claims he intelligence input about the  apple boxes and was heading to- before killing." he said. Sajad Lone said, "Killing is a killing  jumped a checkpoint and was movement of terrorists, a Mobile wards Srinagar. It was a co-driver A doctor at the Baramulla irrespective of the source or the chased for 23 km before tyres of Vehicle Check Post (MVCP) was who alerted them of Mir's death. Hospital said Mir was brought in context. The killing of the truck the truck were fired at "to de- established by Security Forces. "If the armyis telling the truth, by the Army at 1 pm and "had a driver is a murder..beingexecuted flate" them, the death has stirred One speeding suspicious civil  Iet them share the CCTV footage single bullet injury with entry by security forces makes it more up a storm after his family and truck was spotted....the truck with us.. instlled on everysecu- and exit wounds...suggested that heinous." He called it "contempt political leaders questioned the didn't stop despite repeated rity force vehicle," Mir's cousin he was shot at from close range." and disregard for Kashmiri lives". official version.. warnings (and) instead acceler- Abdul Rashid told The Indian Another relative said, "The Jammu and Kashmir Chief A civilian truck driver was ated further," the statement said. Express. 'They (army) are saying bullet hit his armpit and exited Minister Omar Abdullah said he killed whenthe army fired at him The troops pursued the vehi- they chased him for23 km. There from the other side. If the army had ordered an inquiry and had near Sopore's Sangrama on the cle for over 23 km, the armysaid.  are many(security)camps on this had aimed at the tyres...the bul- taken it up with the Union gov-  Srinagar-Baramulla highway, po- "Shots were fired(at) tyres to de- stretch and every camp has CCTV let couldn't have hit his armpit." ernment. "...the death of lice said. Police identified the the flate, which forced (the) vehicle cameras installed on the roads.. The oldest of four siblings, Mir Waseem Ahmed Malla (Mir). driver as Waseem Ahmad Mir to halt at Sangrama Chowk... the Let them show it.... is survived by his father, mother,  shot by the army under circum- (32), a resident of Bomai village, injured driver was immediately He claimed there were "con- three brothers and a sister. stances that are not entirely which is some 15 km from evacuated to GMC Baramulla by tradictions in the statements  Meanwhile, opposition par- clear..." Omar posted on X, Sangrama, the site of the shooting.  Security Forces where he was made by the police and the army'. ties have called the incident a  adding J&K will never be free of This comes at a time when declared dead.". "How could they chase him "disregard for Kashmiri lives". terror without the "partnership the district administration and  But the family of the driver  for 23 km when the distance be- The Peoples Democratic Party with the local population".

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 141333.png]
Sri Lankan Navy fires at Indian boat, two fishermen injured 1 Meera Srinivasan "strong protest", Sri Lanka R. Rajaram claimed that the Indian COLOMBO/TIRUCHI fishermen were illegally fishing in its territorial wa- A Sri Lankan Navy patrol ters and had attempted to fired at a fishing boat from "assault" its naval officers, Karaikal in Puducherry in adding that two fishermen the early hours of Tuesday, received "slight injuries" in causing "serious injuries" "accidental fire". to two fishermen. The Sri India's Ministry of Exter- Lankan Navy also arrested nal Affairs said two fisher 13 fishermen from Tamil men suffered "serious inju Nadu and Puducherry ries" and were receiving aboard the boat, on charg- treatment at the Jaffna es of trespassing and fish- Teaching Hospital. ing in the island nation's waters. CONTINUED ON While India lodged a > PAGE 10

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142018.png]
Troops battle Rwanda-backed rebels. as protests erupt in Congo's capital Demonstrators attack several foreign embassies, including those of Rwanda, France and Belgium; UN says humanitarian  situation in Goma is extremely worrying with a hospital coming under attack, killing newborns and pregnant women Associated Press and Belgium, on Tuesday city, with civilians taking GOMA demanding that they op- cover and heavy artillery  pose the advance of M23 fire directed at the city cen- ecurity forces of the rebels into Goma. Police ter on Monday, Mr. Lemar-. Democratic Repu- fred teargas at the protes- quis said. He said several blic of the Congo ters as they marched to the shells struck the Charite were fighting on Tuesday embassies in Kinshasa, Maternelle Hospital in cen- against Rwanda-backed re- looting and setting fires to tral Goma, "killing and in- bels who advanced into a parts of the buildings. The juring civilians, including. key eastern city in a major embassies of Kenya and newborns and pregnant escalation of a decades-. Uganda were also attacked. women." long conflict.. The humanitarian situa- Three South African  Residents reported gun- tion in Goma "is extremely peacekeepers were killed fire overnight in Goma, a worrying, with a new on Monday, while a fourth city of 2 million people Choas unfolds: People protest in Kinshasa on Tuesday against M23e threshold of violence and. soldier succumbed to inju- which the rebels claimed rebels' advance into the city of Goma in Congo's east. AP. suffering reached today," ries sustained in fighting to have captured on Mon-. Bruno Lemarquis, the Un- days ago. That makes 17 day. Explosions and gun- holding hundreds of thou- tensions. ited Nations humanitarian peacekeepers and foreign fire were heard near the Dozens of demonstra- coordinator for Congo, sands of the more than 6. soldiers who have been now-shut Goma airport. million people displaced tors attacked several fo- told reporters on Monday. killed in the fighting, ac- Goma is a regional trade by eastern Congo's pro- reign embassies, including There were active com- cording to UN and Army and  humanitarian  hub  longed conflict over ethnic those of Rwanda, France bat zones in all areas of the. officials.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142437.png]
YAN GETSLIFETERY FOR KILLING KANISHKA BOMBING SUSPECT Ottawa : A Canadian court has sentenced a 24-year-old man to life after he pleaded guilty to the killing of Sikh businessman Ripudaman Singh Malik, a suspect in the 1985 Air India bombing who was later acquitted, accord- ing to local media reports. A British Columbia Supreme Court judge Tuesday sen- tenced Tanner Fox to life with no parole for 20 years for killing Malik, the CBC news reported. PTI

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142451.png]
Canada report on Nijjar killing: No definitive link to foreign state proven PRESS TRUST OFINDIA MAN GETS LIFE TERM OTTAWA, JANUARY 29 FOR KILLING KANISHKA A CANADA commission report BOMBING SUSPECT as said "no definitive link" with  "foreign state" in the killing of Ottawa : A Canadian court Sikh activist Hardeep Singh has sentenced a 24-year-old Nijjar was "proven", smashing  man to life after he pleaded Canadian Prime Minister Justin guilty to the killing of Sikh Trudeau's allegations that ac- businessman Ripudaman cused the involvement of Indian Singh Malik, a suspect in the agents in the killing. 1985 Air India bombing who  In September 2023, Trudeau was later acquitted, accord- said Canada had credible evi- ing to local media reports. A Ience that the Indian govern- British Columbia Supreme nent was involved in the mur- Court judge Tuesday sen- Her of Nijjar in British Columbia tenced Tanner Fox to life with n June 2023. no parole for 20 years for In the report, titled killing Malik, the CBC news Public Inquiry Into Foreign reported. PTI nterference in Federal Electoral Processes and Democratic nstitutions', released Tuesday,  nouncement regardingsuspected commissioner Marie-Josee  Indian involvement in the killing Hogue said, "Disinformation is of Hardeep Singh Nijjar (though used as a retaliatory tactic to pun- again no definitive link to a foreign sh decisions running contrary to state could be proven)," it said. a state's interests." The reportsug- The 123-page report also gested India spread disinforma- talked of expelling six Indian ion on the killing of Nijjar. 'This diplomats "in reaction to a tar- nay have been the case with a geted campaign against Canadian lisinformation campaign that fol- citizens by agents linked to the owed the Prime Minister's an- Government of India".

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142543.png]
India-China thaw: What fine print of the countries' statements says Framing & overall approach  long-term perspective... so as to promote ing the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020. And fol-  journalist in India.  like the one both sides have agreed to hold soon  SHUBHAJIT ROY On the face ofit, New Delhi's statementis  lowing the Galwan clash in June that year, TRANS-BORDER RIVERS: On trans- -- can prevent such situations in the future. NEW DELHI, JANUARY 29  more nuanced and cautious compared to  along the sound and stable track. they never resumed.  border rivers like the Brahmaputra, both On this ssue, a careful reading of the two  sides agreed to hold an early meeting ofthe Notable silences Beijing's, which seems to have a more opti- IN A major diplomatic breakthrough, New mistic assessment of the talks. They also.  Some major developments statements shows that while Delhi wants a India-China Expert Level Mechanism This  One of the two countries was silent on highlight the wo country's overall pproach.  MANSAROVAR YATRA: On Kailash new pact, China has linked this to visas and will involve sharing of data, which has been some key issues.  measures to repair bilateral ties: resuming While the Indian statement emphasises resident journalists. an issue in recent times. On trade, the Indian side spelt out its con- Kailash Mansarovar Yatra this summer., most echo each other, but the Chinese state- The Indian statement said: They agreed Beijingin December cleared the construc- cerns on market access and tariff barriers. of"interest" and "concerm"- restoring direct flights between the two cap- '  referring to the in principle to resume direct air ervices be-  tion of the world's largest dam on the Tsangpo "Specific concerns in the economic and trade itals, issuing visas for journalists and think  border situation --the Chinese statementem-  The Indian statement said the two sides tween the two countries; the relevant tech- (Siang or Brahmaputra in India) close to the  areas were discussed with a view to resolv-  tanks, and sharing trans-border river data, a  nical authorities on the two sides will meet  Indian border, triggering worries in the lower  ing these ssues and promoting long-term statement from the Ministry of External "The two sides took stock of the extant Yatra in the summer of 2025; the relevant and negotiate an updated framework for  riparian states of India and Bangladesh.  policy transparency and predictability," New Affairs (MEA) said on Monday.  mechanisms for functional exchanges. It was  mechanism will discuss the modalities for this purpose at an early date". New Delhi said it was not informed by Delhi's statement said. The Chinese state-  agreed to resume these dialogues step by  doing so as per existing agreements". The the Chinese side about the dam project, These decisions follow Foreign Secretary  ment makes no mention of this. step and to utilise them to address each Chinese statement concurred, adding that sume direct flights between Chinese main- Conversely, on sco, China said: "The he met China's Foreign Minister Wang Yi. the two sides "will discuss relevant arrange-  and and India, support the competent au-  other's priority areas of interest and con- tion between the two countries, and learnt Indian side will extend full support for Vice Foreign Minister Sun Weidong, and cern," said the Indian statement. me nts as soon as possible."  thorities of the two countries to coordinate of it from media reports. Indian officials Minister of International Department ofthe In contrast, the Chinese statement said DIRECT FLIGHTS: As many as 539  and push it forward, and take measures to. then reached out to their Chinese counter-.  Cooperation Organization, and will actively. CCP Liu Jianchao. While undoubtedly sig- that "both sides should view and handle  scheduled direct flights, with a cumulative  facilitate personnel flows and exchanges of  parts about sharing information in advance,  participate in the meetings under the SCO nalling a potential thaw in ties, the fine print China-India relations on the basis of the fun- capacity of more than 1.25 lakh passengers, resident journalists".  and consulting India and Bangladesh. umbrella." India makes no mention of this. of the two countries' respective statements  damental interests of the two countries and  operated between India and China each Currently, there is only one Indian resi-  Regular meetings and information sharing  LONGER VERSION ON reveals some notable divergences.  dent journalist in China. There is no Chinese  at the level of an expert-level mechanism -- indianexpress.com/explained

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142627.png]
Erdogan meets Hamas delegation in Ankara Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan met with Hamas leader Muhammad Ismail Darwish in Ankara on Wednesday, Erdogan's office said in a state- ment. Turkish Foreign Minister Hakan Fidan and Intelligence Chief Ibrahim Kalin also at- tended the meeting, as well as other Hamas officials.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142635.png]
SRAELL FIRE IN WEST BANK KILLS TWO MEN Jerusalem: The Palestinian Health Ministry says two Palestinians were killed by Israeli fire in the West Bank overnight into Wednesday. A 23-year-old man was shot dead in Tulkarem and a 25- year-old man was killed in a strike on Jenin, where Israel launched a large operation earlier this month. There was no immediate comment from the Israeli military.. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142649.png]
SYRIA '14 killedin strike by Turkey-allied. forcesin north'. Damascus: At least 14 civil- ians were killed and 29 wounded in attacks by Turkish-backed forces in northernSyria on Monday and Tuesday, the U.S.- backed Kurdish militia group said. The Kurdish- Ied Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) said Turkish- backed forces targeted a market in the city of Sarrin with drones on Tuesday, killing eight civilians and injuring20others. Some of the wounded were in crit- ical condition, they said. Shelling by Turkish- backed forces on another area in northern Syria killed three civilians and injured nine on Tuesday, as per the SDF. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142712.png]
CONGO Rebels move southward after. seizing east city Goma: Rwandan-backed M23 rebels in Democratic Republic of Congo were moving south on Wednesday towards Bukavu, the capital of South Kivu province, ap- parently bidding to ex- pand their area of control in the country's east after capturing the city of Goma. M23 forces were advancing south from the town of Minova, along the western side of Lake Kivu, according to five diplomatic and security sources, one of whom was in direct contact with the rebels. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142741.png]
Putin says Kyiv unwilling to take legal way' for talks, Zelenskyy rejects claim Zelenskiy's "illegitimacy" in re- REUTERS maining in power beyond his MOSCOW,JANUARY 29 mandate with no authority to sign documents. RUSSIAN PRESIDENT Vladimir "But essentially, if they want Putin said on Tuesday that to proceed, there is a legal way Ukraine could find a legal way to to do it. Let the chairman of the hold peace talks with Russia Rada (Ukraine's parliament) on ending their nearly three. handle it in accordance with the year-old war, but Moscow Vladimir Putin is afraid of constitution," Putin said.  sees no willingness on Kyiv's part strong leaders: Zelenskyy Zelenskyy,  writing r on to engage. Telegram, said Putin had "once Ukrainian President again confirmed that he is afraid Volodymyr Zelenskyy immedi- afraid of talks and sought to pro- of negotiations, afraid of strong ately dismissed President long the war. leaders and is doing everything Putin's statements questioning Putin told Russian state tele- to prolong the war." Putin's ac- his legitimacy, saying that the vision that negotiations with tions, he said, were "aimed at Kremlin chief had shown he was Ukraine were complicated by making the war endless."

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 142922.png]
27 migrants from. 'Bangladesh' arrested by Ernakulam police The Hindu Bureau la for varying periods and KOCHI all of them have been working, the police said. The Ernakulam Rural pol- Most of them possessed ice in Kerala took into cus- Aadhaar  cards.  They tody a group of 27 irregular claimed to have crossed migrants suspected to be the Bangladesh border and of Bangladesh nationality secured Indian documents from a house in the North with the help of some Paravur police station li- agents. The police were mits on Thursday.. trying to track down the The police detained a agents. group of 54 persons. Ho- The latest detentions wever, only 27 of them re- have taken the number of portedly confessed to be suspected irregular mi- from Bangladesh, accord- grants from Bangladesh to ing to the police.. 34 this month alone in ru They have been in Kera- ral limits.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143101.png]
Amid Gaza ceasefire, India revives diplomacy. with West Asia, Europe for economic corridor.  a visit to Washington that is is undoubtedly destabilis NEWS ANALYSIS  Still being planned. ing but it does not under- Official and diplomatic  mine the powerful logic be-  Suhasini Haidar sources said that while no hind IMEC. Nor should it NEW DELHI specific moves on the pro- weaken our resolve to ject were being discussed work towards realising it," With a third round of hos- at present, hopes for a sta- Mr. Mitsotakis had said tage and prisoner exchang- ble and lasting ceasefire in during a visit to Delhi in Fe- es completed and signs Gaza and the region had bruary 2024. Officials in that the Israel-Gaza cease- grown in the past few Delhi and Athens said they fire is still holding, reviving weeks. However, they con- expected to take the dis talks on the India-Middle ceded that it would be diffi- cussions on IMEC forward East-Europe Economic S. Jaishankar with the UAE's Deputy Prime Minister Hamdan bin cult to pick up the diplo- during Mr. Gerapetritis's Corridor (IMEC) is back on Mohammed Al Maktoum during a meeting in Abu Dhabi. PTI macy over IMEC between visit, expected from Febru- the agenda in India's diplo- Israel and Arab countries ary 5 to 7. The Greek Fo- matic outreach to the re- counterparts from the re- will visit a few weeks after until there was some kind reign Minister is one of the gion. Sources confirmed gion as well. A visit by Qa-  the Gaza ceasefire and the of commitment from the few leaders to have visited that External Affairs Minis- tari Emir Sheikh Tamim reopening of the Rafah Netanyahu government re- both Tel Aviv and Ramallah ter S. Jaishankar discussed  bin Hamad Al-Thani is also border crossing from garding talks for a two- since the October 2023 at- taking forward infrastruc-  being discussed. Egypt to Gaza, is expected state  solution,  which tacks, and as a member of ture and trade facilitation. to share his views on the. seemed unlikely for now. the UN Security Council initiatives during his visit Diplomatic blitz reconstruction of Gaza this year, Greece occupies to the UAE this week. IMEC will feature promi- during his visit to India. Greek optimism a key position on hopes to He is also expected to nently during next week's Prime Minister Naren- The Greek government has resolve the conflict. travel to Oman in mid-Fe-  back-to-back Delhi visits by dra Modi is also expected been keen to move ahead Mr. Abdelatty, is also ex- bruary for bilateral meet- Greece's Foreign Minister to discuss the IMEC project on the project, and Greek pected to discuss the pro- ings and to address the In- Giorgos Gerapetritis who with French President Em- Prime Minister Kyriakos ject, although officials said dian Ocean Conference, will hold Foreign Office  manuel Macron on his visit Mitsotakis has touted IMEC the Egyptian government being organised jointly by consultations, and Egyp. to France for the Artificial as a key element of the In- had been unhappy with the Ministry of External Af- tian Foreign Minister Badr Intelligence Summit bet- dia-Greece Strategic the IMEC announcement, fairs (MEA) and the India Abdelatty for a strategic ween February 10 and 12, Partnership. as they saw it as a geopolit- Foundation, where he will dialogue with Mr. Jaishan- and with new U.S. Presi- "The war in Gaza and ical and commercial rival meet with about 20 other kar. Mr. Abdelatty, who  dent Donald Trump during turmoil in the Middle East to the Suez Canal.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143449.png]
2 infiltrators killed in gunfight close to Line of Control in Poonch, says Army The Hindu Bureau tor. Alert troops swiftly en- weapons  and i  war-like ed a week ago, was repa- SRINAGAR gaged the infitrating #ter- stores. "Operations conti- triated on Friday. rorists,  triggering an nue in the region," the Ar- Officials said Moham- Two infiltrators were killed  intense and heavy firefight. my said.  mad Faiz Yasir was handed in an anti-infiltration oper- The operation continued Later, a team of doctors, over to the authorities at ation in the Pir Panjal val- through the night, leading police officers, and a ma- the Chakan Da Bagh gate in ley's Poonch on Friday, a to the neutralisation of two gistrate visited the forward Poonch. He was appre- day after a gunfight erupt- terrorists," the Army said. posts to conduct the post- hended from a house in ed close to the Line of Con- mortem of the bodies of Salhotri village on January trol (LoC). Weapons recovered the slain militants. 25 night. Preliminary re- "Terrorist  movement The Army said the search Meanwhile, a resident of ports suggested that the ar- was detected last night at of the area resulted in the Pakistan-occupied  Kash- rested youth was mentally the LoC in the Poonch Sec- recovery of number of mir (PoK), who was arrest-  unstable.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143527.png]
Four years on, Myanmar and its continuing nightmare our years after the military coup on Washington DC, "with its power rapidly slipping However, the UN has outsourced the  February 1, 2021, Myanmar, the sick man away". The junta forces and the resistance are responsibility of mediation to ASEAN. ASEAN did of Southeast Asia, continues to traverse a thus locked in a ceaseless war of attrition in what it could, but its Five-Point Consensus (5PC) dismal path. The nation is fragmenting; there is which neither side can be a victor. remains stillborn because the cessation of no peace and stability; the economy is in ruins;  Meanwhile, the country stands divided into hostilities and the commencement of national the people are suffering; and the international three zones. The central part remains broadly dialogue are unacceptable to the warring parties. community has other headaches to worry about.  Rajiv Bhatia under military control. Peripheral areas are Recently, ASEAN Foreign Ministers advised the Myanmar's deepening crisis has been forgotten or  generally with the resistance. Armed battles with, military government to prioritise dialogue over is a Distinguished ignored by most nations, except perhaps the  and aerial bombardments by, the military occur holding elections, but this has been brushed Fellow at Gateway member-states of the Association of Southeast House, a former in civilian regions located in both zones. Inner aside. Asian Nations (ASEAN) and neighbours such as Ambassador of India demons continue to haunt the people of China and India. to Myanmar, and the Myanmar. The neighbours in the picture author of The UN and ASEAN are unable to resolve matters. A stocktaking 'India-Myanmar ASEAN's role for Myanmar. In that case, some experts argue  Relations: Changing The past four years have brought armed battles to The crisis began in early 2021 when the military that the nation's neighbours, China, India, Contours' homes, villages, and cities, with government did not like the results of the elections held in Thailand, Bangladesh, and Laos, must do troops fighting against their own people, November 2020 that gave Aung San Suu Kyi's something tangible, considering that the ongoing represented by a variety of ethnic armed National League for Democracy victory. The crisis directly threatens their interests. organisations (EAOs) and people's defence forces 1O-year-old experiment in limited democracy was. But there are challenges: Myanmar's borders (PDFs) in all parts of the country - north, south, rudely terminated as tanks rolled into the streets.. with India and Bangladesh are now controlled by. east and west, not excluding the heartland where Now, to end the impasse, the military's EAOs, not the government; there is a lack of trust the majority Bamar community lives. The preferred way out ironically is to hold another between India and China; and India-Bangladesh resistance is broadly coordinated by the election. The generals tried to do this last year, relations are under serious stress. Therefore, the unrecognised National Unity Government (NUG). but they failed. The question is, can they succeed neighbours are unable to develop an internal The costs of conflict are high. The Assistance this year? with at least half the country outside consensus on how to persuade the government Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) their control, elections, if held, will not represent and opposition to move from conflict to peace. estimated that, as of January 29, 2025, the the views of the entire populace. Besides, if they Thailand, the only big neighbour and an ASEAN military arrested 28,405 people, of whom 21,683 are organised under the present conditions of member, is uniquely positioned to help, but it were still detained, and that it killed 6,224 people continuing violence and suppression, will they faces limitations that it cannot overcome. with around 2,900 treated as "need to be verified confer legitimacy on the next government that  Meanwhile, China has substantially increased killed persons." Besides, over 3.3 million people must necessarily be friendly to the military? its influence since the coup. It will continue to be are now internally displaced across the country. Doubts exist. a dominant player, especially as the West shows The deepening  Independent sources have spoken of Notably, United Nations experts led by Tom. declining interest in Myanmar. China is "the only "indiscriminate attacks" and "unlawful killings" crisis in the Andrews, UN Special Rapporteur on the situation outside power with the means, capacity, and by the junta that are "characterized by their country seems of human rights in Myanmar, offered a forthright motivation to influence in Myanmar's internal brutality and inhumanity." It should also be view. "You cannot hold an election when you to have been conflicts," wrote Bertil Lintner recently. recognised that four years of continuous fighting deposed a democratic government in an Hence, the inescapable conclusion is that the forgotten or  have done untold damage to military personnel, unconstitutional coup and continue to arbitrarily people of Myanmar should stop hoping that help ignored by most resulting in killings, injuries, desertions, and a arrest, detain, disappear, torture, and execute will come from the outside. If their leaders are. general loss of morale. "The junta is entering the nations; opposition leaders," they warn. The notion that unable to talk rather than let their guns do the fifth year of military rule," wrote Professor Myanmar elections will resolve the political crisis is talking, sadly, they, the people, will continue Zachary M. Abuza of the National War College,  is fragmenting considered "delusional" by seasoned observers.  paying a hefty price for their leaders' folly.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143809.png]
JAKARTA Indonesians pelt eggs at Malaysian. embassy over shooting of migrant. AP Dozens of Indonesians, angered over the shooting of an Indonesian migrant worker, threw eggs on Thursday at the Malaysian embassy. in Jakarta. He was shot dead and four others wounded on January 24 after Malaysian officials opened fire on their boat for alleged trespassing in the waters off Tanjung Rhu Beach in Selangor. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143816.png]
OSLO Norway seizes Russian-crewed ship over suspected cable damage AFP Norwegian police seized a Norwegian-owned ship at Latvia's request over its suspected involvement in damage done to a Baltic. Sea cable. The vessel's owner rejected any wrongdoing. The Silver Dania was sailing between Saint Petersburg and Murmansk when it. was stopped on Thursday evening off the coast of Tromso. AFP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143823.png]
BEIRUT U.S. claims to have killed senior al-Qaeda operative in Syria strike AP The U.S. mititary said it killed a senior operative of al-Qaeda's Syria branch in an air strike on northwestern Syria on Thursday. U.S. Central Command forces conducted an air strike targeting and. kilting Muhammad Salah al-Zabir, a senior operative in the terrorist. organisation Hurras al-Din, an al-Qaeda affiliate. AFP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143831.png]
TOKYO Japan scrambles jets as Russian bombers fly over high seas REUTERS Japan scrambled fighter jets after Russian bombers flew over jets flew over the high seas of the Sea of Okhotsk and the Sea of Japan, Tokyo's top government spokesman said. In response, Japan deployed Air Self-Defense Force fighter jets, he said. AFP.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143840.png]
Two killed in Israeli strikes on eastern Lebanon Agence France-Presse BEIRUT Overnight Israeli air strikes on the Bekaa Valley in east- ern Lebanon killed two persons, the Health Minis- try said on Friday, two months into a fragile ceasefire. "The strike by the Israeli enemy on Janta killed two persons and wounded 10," the Ministry said. The Israeli military said it struck "multiple" Hez- bollah targets in the Bekaa, a stronghold of the militant group with which it fought a war last year. The village of Janta area lies close to the Syrian bor- der and the area was alrea- dy hit by Israeli strikes on  January 13.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143846.png]
Ukrainian troops kill 22 in occupied village, says Russia Agence France-Presse MOSCOW Moscow on Friday accused Ukrainian troops of killing 22 people in an occupied Russian village, including eight women who were al- legedly raped before being executed. Ukraine controls dozens of border settlements in the Kursk region of west- ern Russia since launching a surprise offensive in Au- Serious charge: Russia said the victims included eight women who gust and says about 2,000 were raped by Kyiv's troops before they were killed. AFP civilians still live in areas it occupies. Russkoye Porechnoye, in the basements of several Russia has now retaken about 20 km from the Uk homes, were eight women several towns. rainian border. who were allegedly raped On Friday, it said it was before being killed, the In- Border village now investigating the kill- vestigative Committee Russia's Investigative Com- ing of *22 residents" bet- said. mittee had said on January ween September and No- Kremlin spokesman 19 that it was investigating vember. Dmitry Peskov accused the the killing of "at least seven Among the victims, international community civilians" in the village of whose bodies were found of ignoring Russia's claims.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143854.png]
Hamas and Israel to carry out. fourth hostage-prisoner swap. The group will release three Israeli captives in exchange for 90 inmates held in Israeli jail as part of a ceasefire agreement; Prime Minister Netanyahu confirms details of hostages to be released Agence France-Presse has U.S. citizenship, and JERUSALEM Ofer Kalderon, who also holds French nationality. amas and Israel The office of Prime Mi- will carry out their nister Benjamin Netanya- fourthI  hostage- hu confirmed it had re. prisoner swap of the Gaza ceived the names of the 12 ceasefire on Saturday, with three captives to be the militant group to free released. three Israeli captives in ex- In exchange, Israel will change for 90 inmates in free 90 prisoners, nine of Israeli jails. whom are serving life sen- Militants in Gaza began tences, the Palestinian Pri- releasing hostages after the soners' Club advocacy first 42-day phase of the Resilient faces: Relatives and supporters of Israelis held hostage in. group said. ceasefire with Israel took Gaza attend a protest in Israel's capital of Tel Aviv on Friday. AFP. Militants took a total of effect on January 19. The 251 people hostage during hostages have been in cap- InternationalCommittee the Hostage and Missing their attack of October 7, tivity for nearly 15 months. of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Families Forum, named 2023. Of those, 79 still re  Hamas and Islamic Jihad exchange for hundreds of the captives to be released main in Gaza, including at militants have so far hand- Palestinian prisoners. on Saturday as Yarden Bi- least 34 the military says ed over 15 hostages to the Israeli campaign group, bas, Keith Seigel, who also are dead.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143901.png]
Junta extends state of emergency by six months in Myanmar Agence France-Presse battlefield losses over the YANGON past year to an alliance of ethnic minority armed Myanmar's junta extended groups in the north and a state of emergency by six west of the country. months on Friday, four The ruling. military years after it seized power council headed by Army triggering a civil war that chief Min Aung Hlaing un- has killed thousands. animously approved the The country is mired in extension, the junta's infor- a bloody conflict stemming mation team said in a from the February 1, 2021 statement. putsch that ended a 10- year experiment with de- Polls deferred mocracy and jailed Nation- Elections cannot be held al League for Democracy under a state of emergen- leader Aung San Suu Kyi. cy, so long-promised polls The military is strug- the junta has said will be gling to contain armed re- held in 2025 will not take sistance to its rule, suffer- place until the second half ing a series of damaging Of the year at the earliest.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143912.png]
Rwanda-backed M23 rebels move south as volunteers rally to fight back in Congo Agence France-Presse The crisis has rattled the GOMA continent and internation- al observers, with a south- The  Rwandan-backed ern African regional bloc armed group M23 moved holding an emergency south as it closed in on a summit in Zimbabwe's key military airport in DR capital Harare on Friday. Congo, with queues of M23 fighters are now young men volunteering to moving south, with fight- defend a provincial capital ing concentrated some 30  on Friday. km from the city of Kavu- The group captured mu. The city has a strategic most of Goma, the capital military airfield and~is of North Kivu province, where the Congolese Army earlier this week and has has laid down its defensive yowed to march all the way Crowd control: An M23 member keeps watch as people attend a Iine just 40 km north of to the capital Kinshasa. protest against the Congolese government in Goma on Friday. AFP South Kivu's provincial The weeks-long offen- capital Bukavu. sive has marked a dramatic mated six million people genocide. However, the The United 1 Nations escalation in a region that over three decades. country is accused of seek- has seen conflict involving Rwanda says its primary ing to profit from the re- ble reports that the M23 is dozens of armed groups interest is to eradicate gion's reserves of minerals moving rapidly towards claim the lives of an esti- fighters linked to the 1994 used in global electronics. the city of Bukavu".

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143928.png]
Sri Lankan President is ready to release Tamil land in Jaffna Press Trust of India Dissanayake was COLOMBO visiting Jaffna for the first time since being Sri Lanka President Anura elected President in Kumara Dissanayake on Friday assured the north- September last year ern Tamils that their lands held by the military would be fully returned back to Northern Province of Sri them soon. Lanka. Mr. Dissanayake was vis- He said steps are being iting Jaffna, the northern taken to expedite the pro- capital, for the first time cess of returning land to its since being elected Presi- rightful owners. dent in September last During the armed con- year and stated that land flict since the 80s, the go belonging to the people vernment has continuous- should rightfully remain ly seized the land of people with them. for military  purposes. Jaffna is a Tamil-domi- From 2015 there have been nated capital city of the releases from time to time.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 143954.png]
French journalist recalls 711 days as hostage of Islamic extremists in Mali Associated Press JNIM has been that he trusted his fixer too instructed. Mr. Dubois was DAKAR responsible for most nn pnnour! pue ynne released on March 20, warning signs. 2023, in Agadez, Niger. of 1,468 kidnappings For a foreign correspon- "I'm not sure," he said French President Em- in Sahel and Benin dent in Mali, the assign- of the circumstances sur- manuel Macron took to the between 2017 and ment seemed like a dream: rounding his kidnapping. social platform X to write 2025, says ACLED as Islamic extremists "I think it was a betrayal. "Olivier Dubois is free," but upended the region, Oli- But the motive is not yet  he did not elaborate on the vier Dubois, a French jour- clear." conditions of the release. nalist, secured a rare inter- that I am a journalist," Mr. Kidnappings have sky- Now that his book -- Pri- view with a leader of JNIM, Dubois said. rocketed in the Sahel in re- sonnier du desert, 7H1 jours  an al-Qaida's affiliate in the The Sahel countries of cent years, according to aux mains dAl-Qaida, Sahel. Mali, Burkina Faso and Nig- data from the U.S.-based which translates in English Or so he thought. En er in recent years have Armed Conflict Location & into Prisoner of the desert, route to the interview in been upended by military Event Data Project, or 711 days in the hands of Al- Gao, northern Mali, in coups and are now led by ACLED. Qaida - is out, Dubois said April 2021, Mr. Dubois, a military juntas, which JNIM, the Sahelian he was hoping he was rea- correspondent for Libera- struggle against rising ex- branch of al-Qaida, has dy to go back to journalism tion and Jeune Afrique pu- tremist violence and have been responsible for most and move on. blications, was kidnapped. made kidnappings a cor- of the 1,468 kidnappings in He spent 711 days in des. nerstone of their strategy Sahel and Benin between 'Painful labour' ert  captivity,  sleeping in the region. 2017 and 2025, according But the experience still chained to a tree, eating Uponhis  release, to the ACLED. The group haunts him. "It was painful dried goat meat and plot- French media published relies on ransom money to labour," he said of the writ- ting his escape. Nearly two an investigation revealing fund their operations and ing process. "The first re- years after his release, he that Mr. Dubois's fixer had on the fear they instill on flex after finishing it was to recounts his ordeal in a worked with French intelli- local populations to keep distance myself from the  book released Thursday in gence, who used him to lo- them in check. story, hoping time will pass France. cate the extremist leader Mr. Dubois recalled be- and, maybe, all of that will "One of the main factors he was trying to interview. ing told he would be "re- be behind me. But I don't that helped me resist and Mr. Dubois said he knew leased quickly" if his fami- really know if that's possi- survive was telling myself his project was risky, but ly and government did as ble"

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144005.png]
4O years on, Hama survivors remember horror of Assad-era massacre Agence France-Presse Hama in central Syria "I had no ties with the instinctive way to try to es- "The bodies arrived by Alawite community, pur- against an armed Muslim  Muslim Brotherhood, I was cape death," he said. VAVH truck and were thrown in ported to  champion Brotherhood revolt. at school, said Mr. Hadid, A soldier opened fre front of the morgue. Dead,  secularism. Hayan Hadid was 18 when The banned movement now in his sixties. again, and Mr. Hadid heard dead, and more dead. We Over more than half a soldiers arrested him in his  had tried two years earlier But "my father was al- a wounded man say, were overwhelmed, said century of rule, the Assads  pyjamas and took him for to assassinate Hafez, and ways very afraid for me "please, kill me", before Ms. Boutros, now an actor. sowed terror among Syr- execution in Syria's Hama his brother Rifaat was and my brother", he said.  more shooting.  Bodies bearing identity  ians, imprisoning and tor-  in 1982, during one of the  tasked with crushing the Mr. Hadid's cousin Mar- Miraculously, Mr. Hadid cards were registered by turing anyone even sus- darkest chapters of the As- uprising in its epicentre. wan had been an influen- survived. when the sol-  name, while others were pected of dissent.  sad clan's rule. tial figure in the Fighting diers left, he got up and set recorded as "unknown"  Mohammed Qattan was "I've never really talked  No one spared Vanguard, an armed off- off, crossing the Orontes and classified by neigh- just 16 when he took up about that, it was a secret. Survivors who witnessed Shoot of the Brotherhood.  River before arriving at his bourhood, she said. arms with the Fighting Only my family knew," said  extra-judicial executions Afteer days of battles, uncle's house. Mr. Boutros said the toll Vanguard. He was arrested Mr. Hadid. said that the crackdown soldiers turned up in Mr. Deadly escape: Syrian Hayan Hadid (centre), a survivor of the 1982 Forty-three years later, *7,000 soldiers,  in February 1982 and jailed was  In light of the December spared no one, with go-  neighbourhood Hama crackdown, at his home in Hama, on Monday. AFP Hadid's Bashar al-Assad's ouster around 5,000 Muslim  for 12 years. 8 ouster of Bashar al-Assad, vernment forces killing  and arrested around 200 opened the way to gather- Brotherhood" members, When Bashar al-Assad's "we can talk at last", he  men, women and children. men, taking them to a When the vehicles lights as he stood among  ing testimonies and comb-  and some 32,000 civilians.  2011 crackdown on pro-de- said. The death toll of the 27 school. stopped, he realised they rows of men for execution,  ing the archives of Syria's The Brotherhood is a  mocracy protests sparked On February 2, 1982,  days of violence has never When night fell, around were at a cemetery. Hadid said he felt a bullet security services.  conservative Sunni Muslim war, Mr. Qattan joined an  amid an information black-  been formally established, 40 were called by name "That means they are zip past his head.  In 1982, Camellia Bou- organisation with a pre- armed group, eventually out, Assad's father and though estimates range and forced into trucks, going to shoot us'," said the  dropped to the tros worked for Hama's sence around the region,  seeking exile' in Turkiye. then  leader Hafez  from 10,000 to 40,000, their hands tied behind  person next to him. ground and didn't move... I hospital service, managing while the Assads, who He returned home after As- launched a crackdown in with some even higher. their backs, he said. don't know how, it was an admissions. stem from the minority sad's ouster last month.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144259.png]
MOHAMMED SALEM & NIDAL AL-MUGHRABI GAZA, CAIRO, FEBRUARY1  HAMAS HANDED over three Israeli hostages on Saturday, and dozens of Palestinian prisoners and detainees were released in exchange, in the latest stage of a truce aimed at ending the 15- month war in Gaza. Ofer Kalderon, a French-Israeli dual national, and Yarden Bibas were handed over to Red Cross officials  in the southern Gaza city of Khan Younis before being transferred to Israel. Israeli-American Keith Siegel was handed over sepa- rately at the Gaza City seaport. Hours later, the first of 183 Palestinian prisoners and de-  tainees due to be released as part of the exchange got off a bus in Ramallah in the West Bank, where they were greeted by large Released French-Israeli hostage, Ofer Kalderon reunited with his family in Ramat Gan, Israel; (right) a Palestinian woman with crowds waiting to receive them.  her sick child before leaving Gaza for treatment through Rafah crossing, in Khan Younis on Saturday. Reuters At the newly reopened Rafah crossing on the southern border, children suffering from cancer Thais who were part of an un- the Gaza Strip. The foreign min- U.S. President Donald Trump on  by Tuesday on agreements for and heart conditions were scheduled release on Thursday. isters and officials from Egypt, Tuesday with the ceasefire in the release of the remaining  among the first Palestinian pa- In Israel, crowds gathered at  Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the Gaza, and a possible normalisa-  hostages and the withdrawal of tients to be allowed to leave Gaza the location in Tel Aviv known as UAE, the Palestinian Authority tion of relations with Saudi Israeli troops from Gaza in a sec- for medical treatment in Egypt. Hostage Square to watch the re-  and the Arab League said such a  Arabia as part of a postwar deal ond phase of the deal, which Saturday's handover saw none lease on giant outdoor screens. move would threaten stability in likely to be a focus. During the should lead to a final end of the of the chaotic scenes that over- Meanwhile, Arab foreign the region and undermine first phase of the ceasefire, 33 deadly war in Gaza. shadowed an earlier transfer on  ministers Saturday rejected the prospects for peace. children, women and older male The initial six-week truce, Thursday, when Hamas guards  transfer of Palestinians from hostages as well as sick and in-  agreed with Egyptian and Qatari Ceasefire negotiations struggled to shield hostages from their land under any circum-  jured, were due to be released, mediators and backed by the US, a surging crowd in Gaza.  stances, presenting a unified to restart Tuesday with over 60 men of military age  has so far stayed on track despite  The handover brings the to- stance against US President  left for a second phase which a number of incidents that have tal number of hostages so far Donald Trump's call for Egypt Prime Minister Benjamin must still be worked out.  Ied both sides to accuse the other handed over to 18, including five  and Jordan to take in residents of  Netanyahu is expected to meet  Negotiations are due to start of violating the deal. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144310.png]
UNITED KINGDOM Chagos deal: UK demands'strong protection'for  military base London: British Prime Minister Keir Starmer on Friday told his Mauritian counterpart,   Navin Ramgoolam, that he wants "strong protec- tions", including from "malign influence", for a U.S.-British military base on Diego Garcia, accord- ing to a statement from Downing Street. Britain struck a deal in October to cede sovereignty of the Chagos  Islands  to Mauritius, while retain- ing control under a 99- year lease of the military base on Diego Garcia, the largest island of the Chagos Archipelago in the Indian Ocean. However, Ramgoolam, who was elected in November, has questioned the deal agreed byhis predecessor and it is yet to be ratified. Britain is waiting for the new Donald Trump ad- ministration to review the deal. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144327.png]
US wants elections in Ukraine. after a ceasefire: Trump envoy. REUTERS WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY1 THE UNITED States wants Ukraine to hold elections, poten- tially by the end of the year,espe- ciallyif Kyiv can agree a truce with Russia in the coming months,. President Donald Trump's top Ukraine official told Reuters. Keith Kellogg, Trump's spe- cial envoy for Ukraine and Russia, said in an interview that Ukrainian presidential and par- liamentary elections, suspended during the war with Russia, RUSSIAN STRIKES IN UKRAINE KILL 11: Rescuers at the site "need to be done". of a Russian airstrike in Poltava, Saturday. Reuters "Most democratic nations have elections in their time of. war. I think it is important they eral months of the new adminis- It is unclear how such a do so," Kellogg said. "I think it is tration to end the all-out war Trump proposal would be good for democracy. That's the that erupted with Russia's full- greeted in Kyiv. President beauty of a solid democracy, you scale invasion in February 2022. Volodymyr Zelenskyy has said have more than one person po- They have offered few details Ukraine could hold elections this tentially running." about their strategy for ending year if the fighting ends and Trump and Kellogg have both the deadliest conflict in Europe strong security guarantees are in said they are working on a plan since World War Two, nor when place to deter Russia from re- to broker a deal in the first sev-. they might unveil such a plan. newing hostilities.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144342.png]
AT LEAST 18 security personnel and 23 terrorists were killed dur- ing clashes between the two sides in Pakistan's southwestern Balochistan province. The military said the terror- ists were killed in different areas of troubled Balochistan in the last 24 hours. In one such opera- tion in Harnai district on Saturday, national troops effec- tively engaged the terrorists, killing 11 militants and destroy- ing multiple terrorist hideouts. Earlier on Friday night, 12 ter- rorists were killed while security forces successfully thwarted mil- itants' attempt to establish road- blocks in the Mangocher area of Kalat. "Thus far a total of 23 ter- rorists have been sent to hell in differentoperations in Balochistan in the last 24 hours." the army said, adding the saniti- zation operations will continue until perpetrators and facilitators of the heinous and cowardly act are brought to justice..  The army said the security  forces were determined to wipe out the menace of terrorism from not only Balochistan but the entire Pakistan. However, no one immediately claimed re- sponsibility for the attacks. Balochistan is in the grip of violence perpetrated by the Baloch extremists who regularly attack the security forces and people belonging to other provinces. Balochistan is Pakistan's largest province butit is the least developed..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144355.png]
SYRIA Officer who 'triggered'2011 uprising arrested Damascus: Syrian author- ities have arrested a for- mer senior security offi- cer and cousin of ousted leader Bashar al-Assad seen by some as respon- sible for sparking the country's 2011 uprising due to a crackdown on protests in the southern city of Daraa, state media said. Atef Najib, a brigadier general and for- mer head of the Political Security Department in Daraa, was held by General Security forces in the country's western Latakia province, SANA said. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144414.png]
8 Maoists s killed, 2 cops injured Lin gunfight in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur based on which the operation was EXPRESSNEWSSERVICE carried out." RAIPUR,FEBRUARY1 All eight Maoists killed in Saturday's encounter are men. EIGHT MAOISTS were killed in a Their identities are yet to be ascer- major gun battle with security tained,Sundarraj said. During the forces in the Gangalur forest in gunfight two DRG men also sus- Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh on tained minor injuries and were Saturday morning, police said. being treated, the IGP said. Two personnel of the District Chief Minister Vishnu DeoSai Reserve Guard(DRG), a unit of the hailed the security forces for the state police, were also injured in success. "The state government the gunfight, he said.. has been working with full com- The gunfight broke out The ammunition seized in the encounter in Gangalur mitment to eliminate Naxalism. around 8.30 am when DRG and Today'sencounter is abigsuccess STF of the state police, along with for the security forces. I salute their CRPF and its elite unit CoBRa, spot. Many more ultras have ei- Bijapur SP Jitendra Kumar courage," Sai said in a statement. were conducting a joint anti- ther been killed or injured. The Yadav said, "We received informa- With this encounter, 49 Naxalite operation, Inspector  search operation at the site is still tion on presence of divisional Maoists have been killed in the General of Police (Bastar Range)  underway. We have recovered an committee member Dinesh, state so far this year. Of them, 33 Sundarraj P said. Insas rifle, a barrel grenade company number 2 of People's  were killed in Bastar division com- "The bodies of eight Naxalites launcher and other weapons from Liberation Guerilla Army, PLGA prising seven districts, including have been recovered from the the spot," the IGP said.. platoon and militia company. Bijapur. (SMndNIUd HWM)

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144434.png]
MEMBERS OF J&K Peace Forum, an organisation founded by Kashmiri Pandits, met promi- nent Kashmiri leader and cleric Mirwaiz Umar Faroog Thursday in a bid to advance the prospects of an inter-community reconcil- iation to pave the way for the re- turn of Kashmiri Pandits to the Union Territory.  In the meetingit was decided that steps would be taken for an inter-community consultation committee to revive the com- posite culture of Kashmir and ensure that all communities can live there in harmony. ."...Mirwaiz reaffirmed that the plight of Kashmiri Pandits is a humanitarian issue and must be addressed with care and ur- gency," the forum said in a state- ment. "Kashmir is incomplete without Kashmiri Pandits." Satish Mahaldar of the J&K Peace Forum said the consulta- tion committee would explore the possibility of designated colonies being set up in J&K for the safe return of the displaced. "We are Hindus but we have Kashmiri prefixed to our iden- tity, and we are keen to nurture that identity." he said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144627.png]
AN EX-SERVICEMAN was killed. and his wife and niece were in- jured, when gunmen opened fire at them in south Kashmir's Kulgam on Monday. This is the first militant attack in the Valley this year.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144714.png]
Manipur violence: SC s.  seeks forensic report on audio tapes Petitioner alleged the clips establish CM Biren Singh's role in ethnic violence more than 200 people in  said he had not gone through the the petition was filed in EXPRESS NEWS SERVICE Manipur since last May. The transcripts. November: "My objectionis not NEW OELHI, FEBRUARY 3 Manipur government has Bhushan said the petitioner delay only but we said that termed the clips as fake and said  had sent the tapes to Truth Labs  whatever they have supplied has THE SUPREME Court Monday  that they were released on social which has "far more expertise  been sent to CFSL and a report is sought a sealed-cover report. media in an attempt to derail and credibility than CFSL..." and awaited. Whoever has uploaded from the Central Forensic. peace initiatives.. that the lab had said it was "his on their Twitter (X)account, we Sciences Laboratory, which is ex- "It is pointed out that audio (Biren's) voice" in the tapes. have approached them also amining the "leaked audio clips have been sent for exami- SG Mehta pointed out that (asking)if you have the original, tapes" that, according to a Kuki nation by the CFSL. The report  Truth Labs was run by private in- please give it to us so that (its ve- body, established Manipur CM N  would be produced in sealed  dividuals. He said the "petitioner racity can be checked)."  Biren Singh's role in fuellingeth- cover before the court on the has some ideological inclina- The CJI said, "We are careful. nic conflict in the state. next date of hearing," the court tions" and that the court-ap- That's why I said in the begin- A bench of Chief Justice of directed. pointed committee of former ning itself. This should not be- India Sanjiv Khanna and Justice At the very outset, CJI Khanna judges has filed reports saying come another issue."  Sanjay Kumar directed Solicitor told advocate Prashant Bhushan, "these civil societyorganisations "At the same time, I don't General Tushar Mehta, who who appeared for the petitioner, are wanting to keep the pot boil- know the contents of the tran-  appeared for Manipur, that the "There are two things. One -- the  ing... That appears to be the in- scripts, and the veracity also. report be produced before it on state is gradually limping back to tention. Let that not happen." That's for you people to exam- the next date of hearing on normalcy. We will keep it on Mehta was referring to the ine... Let the FSL report come." March 24. hold. The second issue is. Justice Gita Mittal Committee, the CJI added. The petitioner, Kuki whether we should entertain it. which was constituted by the SC Meanwhile, the SC made it Organization for Human Rights or the High Court should enter- last August to address the hu- clear that the state's objection as Trust, has sought an independ- tain it."  manitarian concerns stemming to why the petitioner could not ent investigation based on the  Bhushan said the transcripts from the violence. have approached the HC will re- tapes into Biren's alleged role in of the tapes were "very serious" Mehta said an FIR had al-  main open and Monday's order the violence, which has killed  and implicated the CM. The CJI  ready been lodged in August and will have no bearing on it.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144808.png]
Calm in Manipur but storm on border with. Myanmar, security forces on high alert. Amid gunfights in Sagaing region of Myanmar, Meitei insurgent groups say they suffered casualties close to the border. The firefights However, in the last week, three claimed that PLA "2nd  based insurgent groups, which SUKRITA BARUAH are still taking place but across the. different banned insurgent Lieutenant" Henthoiba had died. have seen a rise in activities and GUWAHATI,FEBRUARY3 border, within the jurisdiction of groups from Manipur's Meitei- in an encounter with "proxy en-  recruitment after the start of the Myanmar. We are on high alert,  majorityvalley, which have bases emies". Following this, on  ongoingconflict in the state, have AMID A lull in incidents of vio- and along with the Assam Rifles, in Myanmar, have claimed that  Sunday, two other valley-based bases in Myanmar, where they lence in Manipur, security forces we have opened three new check- their cadres were killed.  groups- the UNLFs Koireng fac- are known to fight alongside the have been put on high alert due to posts along the border - from  OnJanuary31,apublic funeral tion and the KYKL-claimed that  military junta against the rebel  gun battles and explosions near Namlee to Phaikok. Right now, was held in Imphal East's Andro  they lost one member each on People's Defence Force and  the state's border with Myanmar there is no border crossing hap- area to honour a member of the January 30 in a gunfight against Ethnic Armed Organisations, in-  over the past week.. pening on this stretch, and there proscribed group People's the Kuki National Army-Burma cluding the KNA(B). Fierce gunfights broke out in is no ripple on our side," he said. Liberation Army (PLA), who had  and the Indian military. Similar There have also been reports the Sagaing region of Myanmar  Because the violence is taking reportedly been killed in  allegations had also been made of deaths of Kuki-Zo people in the.  acountryin the middle ofa civil place across the border, officials Myanmar, close to the border, on last year by the Naga insurgent ongoing fights in Myanmar, close war -- on January 27. The area is from the security forces deployed  January27. group NSCN(IM) alleging"proxy  to Kamjong. However, unlike the close to Manipur's Kamjong dis- in Manipur said they have no de- In a statement, the warfare" in Myanmar territory. valley-based insurgent groups,no trict. Kamjong SP Ningshem  tails of which groups are involved  Revolutionary People's Front, the Indian security forces have Kuki-Zo group has claimed the Vashum said firing has continued or how many lives have been lost.  armed wing of which is the PLA, denied the allegations. Valley- deaths of its members.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144824.png]
Chhattisgarh: Maoist killed,. weapon seized. JAYPRAKASH SNAIDU RAIPUR, FEBRUARY 2  POLICE SAID Monday that they found the body of a Maoist who was killed in an encounter that took place on Sunday afternoon in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region. At around 2.30 pm on Monday, forces confirmed they found one body and that search. operations were underway. A self-loading rifle (SLR) was re- covered from the deceased, who was wearing the uniform of the. People's Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA), an armed wing of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), police said.  Acting on information about the presence of armed Maoists from North Bastar division and Maad division of the CPI (Maoist),. security forces comprising District Reserve Guard (DRG)and Border Security Force (BSF) be-. gan an operation. Around 12.30 pm on Sunday, an exchange of fire took place and intermittent firing went on for hours. "There is a possibility of some Maoists  being killed and few others be- ing injured. Our search opera-. tions are going on," said a police officer.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144949.png]
19 killed in car bomb blast in northern Syria Damascus: A car bomb exploded on the outskirts of a northern Syrian city on Monday, killing at least 19 people, all but one of  them women, and leaving more than a dozen wounded, hospital workers said. The car detonated next to a vehicle carrying mostly female agricultural workers on the out- Skirts of the city of Manbij.. The deadincluded 18 women and one man, a nurse at the hospi- tal, Mohammad Ahmad, told The Associated Press. Another 15 women were wounded, some of themin critical condition, accord- ing to the local Syrian civil defence. No group immediately claimed responsibility for the explosion.It was the seventh car bomb explo- sion in Manbij in just over a month, said Munir Mustafa, the deputy director of civil defence. Manbij in Aleppo continues to witness violence even after the downfall of President Bashar al-Assad in December.. A resident said the car that detonated was parked on the roadside. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 144956.png]
AFGHANISTAN Shooting at Kabul UN compound kills1 Kabul: A shooting at the United Nations compound in Kabul killed one person and injured another, the UN missionin Afghanistan said Monday. A UN guard  post was shot at Sunday by. a Taliban fighter who was positioned outside the perimeter wall, according to the UN. UN-contracted security guards did not re- turn fire. One international guard sustained minor in- juries, the UN said. The Taliban fighter was later found dead outside the compound. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145051.png]
HAIT Gangs attack elite area, 40 killed in 8 days. Port-au-Prince: Heavily armed gangs in Haiti have attacked aneighbourhood that's home to most of the country's elite and had been largely untouched by criminals, and police have demanded help repelling the assault that has killed at least 40 people. "It's been eight days since Kenscoff has been under attack,"  Mayor Jean Massillon told The Associated Press on Monday. He blamed the attack on the Viv Ansanm gang coalition, with gun- men going home to home and indiscriminately opening fire. "As we speak, they have surrounded the area," Massillon said as he called for reinforcements. The dead include pastors, teachers and children, al- though the number is ex- pected to be higher. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145104.png]
At least 10 killed as gunman attacks adult education centre in Sweden. Police say suspect acted alone, believed to be among those killed; motive unclear of the incident is so large," local  offence and that the search for threw open the door to her class- JOHAN AHLANDER police chief Roberto Eid Forest  possible further victims had con- room just after lunch break and & SIMON JOHNSON told reporters. tinued into the evening. shouted to everyone to get out. STOCKHOLM, FEBRUARY 4 Forest said police believed The shooting took place in "I took all my 15 students out the gunman had acted alone and Orebro, some 200 km west of into the hallway and we started AROUND 10 people have been that they did not currently sus- Stockholm, at the Risbergska running." she told Reuters by  killed in a shooting at an adult pect terrorism as a motive, school for adults who did not phone. "hen I heard two shots education centre, Swedish po- though he cautioned that much complete their formal education. but we made it out. We were lice said, the deadliest attack to remained unknown. He said the It is located on a campus that also close to the school entrance... I take place in Sweden on what suspected gunman had not pre- houses schools for children. saw people dragginginjured out, the prime minister said was a  viously been known to police. "It is avery painful day for the first one, then another. I realised "painful day" for the country. "We have a big crime scene, whole of Sweden," Prime it was very serious," she said.  The gunman is believed to be we have to complete the Minister Ulf Kristersson said on Police said students had been among those killed and a search searches we are conducting in X. "My thoughts are (also) with kept indoors at the school that is continuing at the school for the school. There are a number  all of those whose normal school was targeted and at other other possible victims, the local of investigative steps we are tak- day was turned into fear. Being schools nearby for their safety. police chief told a press confer- ing: a profile of the perpetrator, locked up in aclassroom fearing Police later began evacuating ence. The perpetrator's motive witness interviews... Obviously, for your life is a nightmare no those who had taken shelter. was not immediately known. it's a significant amount of one should have to experience." Sweden has been struggling "We know that 10 or so peo- work." he said.. with a wave of shootings and 'We started running' ple have been killed here today.  Police said they had opened bombings caused by an endemic The reason that we can't be more an investigation into murder, ar-  Maria Pegado, 54, a teacher  gang crime problem but fatal exact currently is that the extent  son and an aggravated weapons at the school, said someone school attacks are rare. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145114.png]
SYRIA al-Sharaato hold. defencetalks with Erdogan Brussels: Syria's transi- tional President Ahmed al-Sharaa and Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan are expected to discuss a joint defense pact in Ankara on Tuesday, in- cluding establishing Turkish airbases in cen- tral Syria and training for Syria's new army, four sources familiar with the matter said. This is the first time that elements of any strategic defense arrangement by Syria's new leaders, including details of additional Turkish bases, have come to light. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145125.png]
Trump & Netanyahu sit for talks; Hamas says discussions begin for truce Phase 2 The accord mapped out three MATT SPETALNICK phases of negotiations to end the & STEVE HOLLAND 15-month war.. WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY 4 The first, which began Jan. 19, halted fighting, expanded the WHEN BENJAMIN Netanyahu amount of humanitarian aid let meets US President Donald into Gaza and exchanged Trump on Tuesday, the Israeli Palestinian prisoners for Israeli prime minister is expected to try  hostages taken to Gaza during to turn the page on sometimes the Oct. 7, 2023, attack. tense relations with the Biden Yet international mediators White House as the two leaders left questions for later negotia. address the future of the Gaza tions about further hostage and ceasefire and ways to counter Iran. prisoner releases, an indefinite ex- But Netanyahu, the first for- tension of the truce and who will eign leader to be hosted by Reuters govern Gaza after hostilities end. Trump since the pro-Israel pres- Palestinians remove the rubble in the south Gaza, Tuesday In his first term, Trump ident's Jan. 20 inauguration, handed Netanyahu a series of could also come under pressure successes, including relocation from an American leader whose of indirect negotiations this have dinner together. of the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem policy goals for the Middle East week between Israel and Hamas Hamas officials said Tuesday from Tel Aviv and the signing of may not always coincide with on the crucial second stage of the that they've begun talks with in- the Abraham Accords, normal- Netanyahu's interests. ceasefire deal and hostage re- ternational mediators over the izing relations between Israel Their meeting coincided  Iease. The two men will hold a second phase of the ceasefire in and several Arab states. with the scheduled resumption joint press conference and then Gaza that began last month. REUTERS, WITH AP INPUTS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145244.png]
Day after killing of retired soldier, J&K police detain over 500 people above 500," a senior police offi- Kulgam. While Wagay(45), who BASHAARAT MASOOD cer told The Indian Express. was hit in the abdomen, was SRINAGAR, FEBRUARY 4 "I don't remember deten- killed in the attack, the two tions on this scale in the recent women were hit in the leg and are A DAY after suspected militants past following a militant attack" undergoing treatment. killed a retired soldier and the officer said.. "They (militants) have wounded his wife and niece in The officer said the detentions crossed the red line this time by south Kashmir, Jammu and were made to send a message to targeting the family members of Kashmir Police detained over militants "operating from across the soldier," a police officer said. 500 people from across the the border that such attacks won't While police have, over the Kashmir Valley.. be tolerated", and that in the past, Iast few years, targeted Pakistan- A large number of those de- "sending such messages have had based Kashmiri militants by tained were relatives of Kashmiri the desired results".. seizing their houses and proper- militants based in Pakistan and Unidentified gunmen on ties in the Valley, this is for the Pakistan-occupied Kashmir(PoK). Monday opened fire at a retired first time that their family mem- "There have been massive soldier, Manzoor Ahmad Wagay, bers and relatives are being de- detentions across the Kashmir his wife and her niece in Behibagh tained simultaneously in such Valley and the number is well village of south Kashmir's Iarge numbers..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145317.png]
In January this year, as many JAYPRAKASH SNAIDU as 36 IEDs have either been de- RAIPUR,FEBRUARY 4 tected and defused or exploded  and injured jawans in Bijapur, a THREE SECURITY personnel senior official said. were injured during anti-Maoist In a separate incident, operations under the jurisdic- Maoists murdered two village tion of Gangalur police station residents after branding them  in Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh police informers. This is the fifth on Tuesday. murder of a villager in Bijapur  This came a day after Maoists this year by Maoists over the allegedly murdered two residents same reason. of Budgicheru village in the dis- The incident took place in trict branding ~them as Budgicheru, which is approxi- "Mukhbir"(informers). One of the mately 75 km away from Bijapur victims had quit Naxalism, while district headquarters and comes the second victim's brother was under the jurisdiction of Tarrem also killed few years ago suspect- police station. ing him to be an informer too. The dead were identified as Personnel of District Reserve Karam Raju Bare, 32, from Talab Guard(DRG) from three districts  Para and Madvi Munna, 27,from and the Central Reserve Police Nayapara. Karam had left Force (CRPF) undertook the op-  Naxalism and had returned to eration after getting information  his village. Madvi was previously about the presence of Maoists in  beaten up by Naxals suspecting the area. him to be an informer and few  During the operation, one of years ago his brother was mur- the personnel stepped on an im- dered over  the  same  provised explosive device, trigger-  reason.Their bodies were found ing an explosion in which he and on Tuesday with their throats  another jawan were injured. The slit. On Monday night two personnel Madkam Bhima Jagargunda area commitee from DRG Sukma district and Maoists dragged the victims out Pramod Kumar from Dantewada.  of their house and attacked them Separately, a jawan Vijay Kashyap on their necks and left chits from the Dantewada DRG branding them, "Mukbhir". stepped on a spike hole trap and According to a police source, suffered injuries. Bijapur has thousands of militia "All three jawans were evac- cadre, making it the most uated and sent to a higher med- Maoist-affected district among ical facility for bettter treatment. the seven such districts in They are out of danger," said Chhattisgarh's Bastar region. A Inspector General of Police for  majority of Maoist violence and Bastar Range, Sundarraj P. arrests take place in Bijapur.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145505.png]
Army pension: SC pulls up Centre for dragging' retired personnel to court, says frame policy ability pension. Why should PRESS TRUST OFINDIA these persons be dragged to the NEW DELHI, JANUARY 30 Supreme Court?" asked the bench. THE SUPREME Court on Itwenton,"We are of theview Thursday pulled up the Centre for that the Union government must "dragging" retired armed forces evolve a policy. There has to be personnel to court and asked it to some scrutiny before a decision is frame a policy on the issue. taken to drag members of the A bench of Justices Abhay S armed forces to the Supreme Oka and Ujjal Bhuyan said each Court." Observing "frivolous ap- and every member of the armed peals" were being filed by the forces who was awarded relief of Centre, the apex court said the disability pension from the morale of the armed forces could- Armed Forces Tribunal need not n'tbe let downby filing such pleas be dragged to the top court and against the relief. the Centre ought to exercise "You say whether you are some discretion in filing appeals. willing to frame a policy. And if "There has to be some prag- you say no then we will have to matic view. An army personnel start imposing heavy costs works for 15, 20 years and sup- whenever we find that the ap- pose there is some disability, and peal appears to be frivolous," the order of the Armed Forces bench cautioned the Centre's Tribunal directs payment of dis- counsel.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145530.png]
TWO MILITANTS were killed in a gunfight with the Army along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch Thursday evening while trying to infiltrate from Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir (PoK).. Police sources said three mili- tants tried to cross into India from Poonch's Khari Karmara. While two were killed in the gun battle, the third managed to escape into PoK, a source said.. The infiltration attempt comes at a time of increased se- curity at the border followingin- telligence inputs about possible incursions. Sources say security forces have been conducting searches in Doda and Kathua in Jammu following reports of mil- itants having come down to these areas from higher reaches. This also comes after a marked decline in militant activity in Jammu's Poonch and Rajouri dis- trict throughout last year.. According to the sources, the. searches are part of an anti-mil- itancy strategy before the onset of summer. It also comes just over a week after the J&K DGP's visit to the strategically impor- tant location of Basantgarh.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145655.png]
SWEDEN Anti-Islam campaignershot dead, 5 arrested Stockholm: Swedish police arrested five people on Thursday after an Iraqi anti-Islam campaigner was shot dead hours be- fore a court verdict was due in a trial over his bum- ing the Koran, as the prime minister expressed con- cerns over the killing's links to a foreign power. The five were arrested in connection with the shooting of Salwan Momika, 38, an Iraqi refugee, in a house in Sodertalje near Stockholm Wednesday, and ordered detained after a prosecu- tor's order, police said. Swedish prime minister Ulf Kristersson said Momika's killing might be linked to a foreign power. Vice Prime Minister Ebba Busch condemned the murder. REUTERS

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145711.png]
UKRAINE Russian drone strikes kills at least four Kyiv: A Russian drone blasted a hole in an apart- ment building in north- eastern Ukraine during a nighttime attack, killingat least four people andinjur- ing nine others, officials said Thursday. The Shahed drone blew out a wall and surrounding windows in the apartment block in Sumy, a major city, just af- ter 1 am, the Sumy re- gional administration said. Four people were rescued from the rubble, and a child was among the in- jured, it said, adding 120 were evacuated. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calledit"aterri- ble tragedy, a terrible Russian crime." AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145720.png]
SOUTH AFRICA JacobZuma's daughterheldon terror charges Johannesburg: A daughter of former South African President Jacob Zuma has been arrested and is ex- pected to appear in court on Thursday to face terror- ism charges. Duduzile Zuma-Sambudla, who is also a member of the South African Parliament, is accused of inciting vio- lence during riots in July 2021 which led to the deaths of more than 350 people. She handed herself over to police on Thursday, police said. Her party con- firmed that Zuma- Sambudla would appear in court Thursday. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 145726.png]
Stop sea aggression, will return US missiles, Philippines tells China manded that the Philippines re- ASSOCIATED PRESS  move the missile system, saying MANILA, JANUARY 30 it was "inciting geopolitical con- frontation and an arms race." PHILIPPINE PRESIDENT "Let's make a deal with Ferdinand Marcos Jr offered on China: Stop claiming our terri- Friday to remove a US missile tory, stop harassing our fisher- system from the Philippines if men and let them have a living, China halts what he called its stop ramming our boats, stop "aggressive and coercive behav- water cannoning our people, iour" in the disputed South Philippine President stop firing lasers at us and stop China Sea. Ferdinand Marcos Jr. File your aggressive and coercive be- The US Army installed the haviour, and we'll return the ty- Typhon mid-range missile sys- phoon missiles.," Marcos said. tem in the northern Philippines scribed as training for combat Chinese officials did not im- in April last year to support what readiness. mediately comment on the the longtime treaty allies de- China has repeatedly de- Philippine leader's remarks.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153027.png]
military prison in the occupied at a post on the edge of Gaza when REUTERS West Bank. Israel's Prison Service Hamas fighters overran their base JERUSALEM, GAZA, JAN25 said all 200 had been released. and abducted them during the The releases on either side October 7, 2023 attack. HAMAS FREED four female Israeli were greeted by cheering crowds, Among the 200 Palestinians, soldiers on Saturday in exchange including Israelis gathered in Tel around 70 will be deported to for 200 Palestinian prisoners, the Aviv and Palestinians in Ramallah. Egypt, Palestinian officials said, second swap under the Gaza But the failure of Hamas to release and from there to another coun- truce, although Israel halted fam- another hostage led Israel to an- try, possibly Turkey, Qatar or ilies from returning to bombed- nounce it was halting plans to let Algeria. Another 16 were sent to out north Gaza over a delayin an- Palestinians return to northern Gaza and the rest were released to other hostage's release.. parts of Gaza. Hamas said it would the Israeli-occupied West Bank. The four freed Israelis were led free her next week Palestinian of-  Joy in Israel was clouded by onto a podium in Gaza City amid ficials say as many as 650,000 dis- disappointment after it emerged a large crowd of Palestinians and placed people are waiting to re- that Arbel Yehud, 29, who had surrounded by dozens of armed turn to the north. Witnesses said been abducted with her Hamas men. They waved and there was a stampede on a road boyfriend from their home in smiled before being led off, enter- leading to the north, blocked by Kibbutz Nir Oz, was not among ing Red Cross vehicles to be trans- Israeli troops who opened fire. those released. Israeli PM ported to Israeli forces.. The four Israeli soldiers freed Benjamin Netanyahu said  Soon after, buses carrying re- on Saturday - Karina Ariev, Palestinians in Gaza would not be leased Palestinian prisoners were Daniella Gilboa, Naama Levy and allowed to cross to the northern seen departing from the Israeli LiriAlbag- had all been stationed part until the issue was resolved.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153037.png]
PHILIPPINES Manila: China harassing fishing vessels Manila: Chinese coast guard ships and a Chinese navy helicopter harassed a group of Philippine fish- eries vessels conducting a scientific survey in a hotly disputed area of the South China Sea, forcing them to cancel the opera- tion, the Philippine coast guard said Saturday. Beijing has repeatedly as- serted sovereignty over most of the South China Sea and accused rival claimant states, including the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia of en- croachment. China has demarcated its territorial claims with a 10 dashed- Iine printed on maps but has not provided the ex- act coordinates. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153055.png]
SUDAN Fighting sets ablazecountry's largest oil refinery Dubai: Fighting around Sudan's largest oil refin- ery set the sprawling complex ablaze, satellite data analysed by The Associated Press on Saturday shows, sending thick, black smoke over the country's capital. Forces loyal to Sudan's military under army chief Gen Abdel-Fattah Burhan Iater claimed they cap- tured the refinery, owned by Sudan's government and the state-run China National Petroleum Corp. The facility represents a Iong-sought prize for the military in its civil war with the rebel Rapid Support Force. AP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153355.png]
Republic Day parade taps into. heritage, diversity, military might. President Droupadi Murmu leads the celebrations, with Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto as special guest; tableaux celebrating 150 years of tribal activist Birsa Munda and 75 years of the enactment of Constitution were the key highlights  Samridhi Tewari Satvika Mahajan NEW DELHI ndia showcased its military might and cultural diversity with a parade keeping special focus on the 75 years of the enactment of the Constitu- tion and Jan Bhagidari (pe- ople's participation), at the. Republic Day celebration here on a cold winter morning that continued in- to a bright sunny afternoon on Sunday. President  Droupadi Murmu led the celebra- tions, with Indonesian Pre- 10.30 a.m., with Prime Mi- nior-most Regiment of the pon system. The Indone- B.R. Ambedkar, were the sident Prabowo Subianto nister Narendra Modi visit- Army. While the invitees  sian Army graced the event key highlights. as the special guest. ing the National War Me- stood still, the National with a music band. The theme for this year morial to pay tributes to Flag was unfurled, fol- Tableaux  celebrating CONTINUED ON was "Swarnim Bharat: Vi- the fallen heroes. lowed by the playing of the 150 years of tribal activist > PAGE 10 rasat aur Vikas" (Golden The President and her National Anthem with a Birsa Munda and 75 years  more reports On India: heritage and deve- Indonesian counterpart thunderous 21-gun salute of the Constitution spot- >> page 11 lopment). were escorted by the Presi- using 105-mm light field lighting the "Father of the 'REPUBLICAN JOURney' The parade began at dent's Bodyguard, the se- guns, an indigenous wea- Indian Constitution", Dr. > PAgE 6

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153407.png]
Blast' in Guwahati: ULFA(I) says it's just a warning The Hindu Bureau Police seize bag with GUWAHATI IED, say they have launched a search People across eight north- for the miscrcants eastern States defied a boy. behind the incident cott call by some extremist groups, including the Unit- ed Liberation Front of Asom (Independent), to volved," Guwahati's Com- celebrate the country's missioner of Police, Partha 76th Republic Day on Sarathi Mahanta, said. Sunday. Earlier, the Paresh Ba- An aberration in the fes- ruah-led ULFA(l) claimed it tival-like atmosphere was a carried out blasts in Guwa- "bomb blast" the ULFA(I) hati and other parts of As- claimed to have detonated sam "not to harm anyone on a truck parking lot in but send a message to the the Beharbari area on the people to not participate in outskirts of Guwahati in occupational India's Inde the morning.. pendence Day and Repu- Another bag, suspected blic Day programmes in to contain an improvised the future". explosive device, was In an email, a spokes- found at the Inter-State Bus person of the group said Terminus nearby. the "blast" was also to re- The police downplayed mind New Delhi of what it the outlawed outfit's claim. was capable of doing on a "It was a loud sound, not larger scale. an explosion. We have Iaunched an operation to CONTInUED ON catch the miscreants in- > PAGE 10

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153429.png]
Trump moots clean-out of Gaza, lifts curbs on bomb Associated Press ABOARD AIR FORCE ONE U.S. President  Donald Trump said he would like to see Jordan, Egypt and other Arab nations in- crease the number of Pal- estinian refugees they are accepting from the Gaza Strip, potentially moving out enough of the popula- tion to "just clean out" the Happy homecoming: A Palestinian who spent 19 years in Israeli war-torn area to create a jail, greeting his family in West Bank. AFP virtual clean slate.. During a 20-minute rael. That lifts a pressure bombs. "They have been question-and-answer ses- point meant to reduce civi- waiting for them for a long sion on Saturday with Iian casualties during Is- time.". presspersons aboard Air rael's war with Hamas in Force One, Mr. Trump also Gaza, which is now halted CONTINUED ON said he has ended his pre- by a tenuous ceasefire. > PAGE 10 decessor's hold on sending "We released them to- PALesTIne RESPOnDS 2,000-pound bombs to Is- day," Mr. Trump said of the > PAge 14

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153523.png]
Men from Rameswaram have been arrested on charges of poaching in the sea, says a statement from the navy; 3 trawlers have been impounded L. Srikrishna RAMANATHAPURAM  n a fresh incident, the Sri Lankan Navy per- sonnel arrested 34 fishermen from Rameswa- ram and impounded three trawlers on charges of poaching on Saturday night. According to the Fisher- ies Department officials, they had issued 439 to- kens on Saturday, and the fishermen were expected to reach the shores in the In troubled waters: The fishermen from Rameswaram who were. early hours of Sunday. arrested on Saturday night. sPEcIAL ARRANGEMENT Preliminary inquiries indicated that when they lihood of their  loca!. leaders in Rameswaram were fishing between Dha- fishermen. condemned the arrest and nushkodi and Mannar, the The Northern Naval seizure of the property un- Sri Lankan Navy, under Command and Coast der what they termed as surveillance, secured the Guard had deployed their false charges. fishermen in the north of fast attack craft to drive They urged the Union Mannar. away the Indian fishing government to intervene Three of the arrested  boats poaching in the sea in the matter and take up fishermen were identified area north of Talaiman- the issue with the Sri Lan- as Regan, 43, Christoper, nar. The arrested fisher- kan government and bring 33, and Innasi Jenson, 42. men and their boats were back the fishermen safely According to a state- handed over to the Assis-. with the trawlers. ment from the Sri Lanka tant Director of Fisheries, "A meeting is likely to Navy, they arrested the Killinochi, for further lega! be convened by the fisher- fishermen to curb illegal proceedings, the release men associations in the fishing practices of foreign said. coastal district," the sourc- boats considering the live- Meanwhile, fishermen es added.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153557.png]
The parade features key missile systems, including BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles, upgraded Pinaka Multi-Rocket Launch System, BM-21 Grad MRLS, and the Pralay quasi-ballistic missile system; the new Battleficld Surveillance System, Sanjay, was showcased for the first time Dinakar Peri nounced the successful ed using high-explosive NEW DELHI completion of flight tests of pre-fragmented rockets in guided Pinaka rockets of 75 the Pinaka system, which  he missile systems km range, paving the way will increase the range by showcased on Kar- for its induction by dou- 15-20%, and an area denial tavya Path during bling the original range of munition (ADM) system, the Republic Day parade 37 km. Work is on to en- which can be anti-tank and on Sunday capture the hance the range to 300 anti-personnel. Contracts evolving long-range tacti- km. for procurement of both cal strike options for the Last September, the Ar- are expected to be signed Indian military, especially my's Director-General of  soon, Lt. Gen. Kumar had the Army, the need for Artillery, Lt. Gen. Adosh  said. which is one of the key les- Kumar, said that the Pina- The Grad proved its sons from the war in ka system was being wide- worth during the 1999 Kar- Ukraine. Iy exploited and its ability gil War when its ability to  BrahMos  supersonic was second to none. "We deliver a salvo of 40 rock- cruise missiles, upgraded are looking at extending ets in just 20 seconds  Pinaka Multi-Rocket the range of the Pinaka played a key role in neutra- Launch System (MRLS) rockets and a lot of work is lising fortified enemy posi- with a range of 75 km, Upgraded tech: The Pralay quasi-ballistic missile system being displayed during the 76th Republic Daye  going on. The DRDO is con- tions on high-altitude ridg. BM-21 Grad, which is a 122  parade on Kartavya Path in New Delhi on Sunday. SHIV KUMAR PUSHPAKAR fident of achieving it." es. Initially mounted on  mm MRLS, and Pralay qua- In addition to Pinaka, the Ural-3750 truck plat- si-ballistic missile system ics Ltd. at a cost of 2,402 four Pinaka regiments in corded Acceptance of Ne- the Army has five Grad form, the BM-21 under- were among those show- crore, and the systems will  service and six more are on cessity for a few hundred rocket regiments and three went a significant upgrade, cased. be inducted in all opera- order. of the missiles for the Army Smerch regiments with a transitioning to the indige- The Defence Research tional brigades, divisions and the Air Force. "In range of 90 km. Another nously developed Ashok and Development Organi-  and corps of the Army in  Twin-launched Pralay threat scenario, Pralay is missile, Nirbhay sub-sonic Leyland super stallion plat- sation (DRDO) showcased three phases between The Pralay with a twin capable of destruction of cruise missile, the longest form. This upgrade' en-  a model of the indigenous March and October. launcher system show- war waging potential of ad- range option, is in an ad- hanced mobility, increased  Advanced Towed Artillery As one of the most ad- cased at the parade is a versary even before the vanced stage of develop- payload capacity, and Gun System (ATAGS) on its vanced rocket systems glo-  quasi-ballistic missile and commencement of contact ment trials and can be ex- streamlined maintenance, tableau. bally, the fully automated India's first ballistic missile battle owing to its flexible pected to be showcased in the commentary noted.  In addition to Pralay, the 214 mm Pinaka MRLS bat- designated for convention- range and lethality," the the next few years. The BrahMos detach- Army's new Battlefield Sur- tery can deliver a salvo of  al role. Development trials booklet stated..  ment on Kartavya Path, led veillance System, Sanjay, 72 rockets on the target up of Pralay are over and the  The upgraded Pinaka is Specialised ammunition by Captain Suraj Singh, was at the parade for the to 75 km in 44 seconds, the development is now com-  going to be the mainstay of Another aspect adding to was from the 344 Missile first time. Sanjay has been commentary booklet dis- plete, as reported by The the Army's long-range the lethality of Pinaka is Regiment, the youngest jointly developed by the tributed at the parade on Hindu earlier. The Defence rocket artillery. Last No- specialised' ammunition. unit within the BrahMos Army and Bharat Electron-  Sunday said. The Army has Acquisition Council has ac- vember, the DRDO an- Trials have been complet- fraternity.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153622.png]
SEOUL North Korea tests sea-to-surface strategic guided cruise missile AP North Korea has test-fired sea-to-surface strategic guided cruise weapons "precisely' hit their targets. The missiles hit their marks after travelling along the 1,500-km elliptical and figure-eight orbits. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un oversaw Saturday's test. AFP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153631.png]
Israel kills 22 in Lebanon ahead of deadline for troop pull-out Agence France-Presse BURJ AL MULUK Israeli Army fire killed 22 people in south Lebanon on Sunday including a sol- dier, health officials said, as residents tried to return home on the day Israel was meant to withdraw under a truce deal. The withdrawal dea- dline is part of a ceasefire agreement reached two months ago that ended Is- Keeping vigil: The withdrawal deadline is part of a truce reached rael's war with Iran-backed two months ago that ended Israel's war with Hezbollah. REuTERS Hezbollah, which had left the Lebanese militant er a 60-day period that Lebanon's Health Minis. group weakened. ends on Sunday. try said on Sunday that Is- The parties have traded raeli forces opened fire on Terms of deal blame for the delay in im- "citizens who were trying The deal that took effect on plementing the agree- to return to their villages November 27 said the Le ment, and on Friday Israel that are still under (Israeli) banese Army was to de- said it would keep troops occupation". ploy alongside UN peace- across the border in south It said 22 residents and a keepers in the south as the Lebanon beyond the pull- soldier were killed and 124 Israeli Army withdrew ov- Out date. more wounded.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153646.png]
Russia says captured east Ukrainian town of Velyka Novosilka Agence France-Presse The town lies in the MOSCOW west of the Donetsk region and is close to Russia on Sunday said its the southern front forces had captured the line in Ukraine east Ukrainian town of Ve- lyka Novosilka in the em- battled Donetsk region, al- most three years into their Velyka Novosilka is close offensive. to the southern front line Russia has made steady in Ukraine -- which has re- advances on the battlefield mained largely static but in eastern Ukraine for where fears of a fresh Rus- months. sian offensive have risen Moscow's Defence Mi- for weeks. Both sides have nistry said Russian troops raced to gain an advantage led "active offensive ac- in the almost three-year as tions" and "liberated the Donald Trump - who has settlement of Velyka Novo. vowed to hold talks to end silka", which lies in the the conflict - returns to the west of the Donetsk region. White House..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153653.png]
Rebels close in on key Congo city as 13 officials killed and thousands displaced Associated Press The United Nations on GOMA Sunday told its staff not to go to the airport and to The international airport shelter in place. in Goma was evacuated Congo, the United States and commercial flights and UN experts accuse temporarily grounded on Rwanda of backing M23, Sunday as fighting bet- which is mainly made up ween Rwanda-backed re- of ethnic Tutsis who broke bels and government forc- away from the Congolese es raged around eastern Army more than a decade Congo's key city, leaving at ago. It's one of about 100 least 13 peacekeepers and armed groups that have foreign soldiers dead and been vying for a foothold displacing thousands of in the mineral-rich region, civilians. where a long-running con- Running for cover: People displaced by the fighting with M23 The M23 rebel group rebels make their way to the centre of Goma on Sunday. AP flict has created one of the has made significant terri- world's largest humanitar- torial gains along the bor- 2 million and is a regional the city, was evacuated by ian crises. der with Rwanda in recent hub for security and hu- the military and commer- The Congolese Foreign weeks, closing in on Goma, manitarian efforts. cial flights were temporari- Ministry said late Saturday the provincial capital that Goma's  international Iy grounded due to fight- it was severing diplomatic has a population of around airport, which is the east of ing, an airport agent said. ties with Rwanda.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153702.png]
27 Nigerian soldiers killed in jihadist. suicide attack: Army Agence France-Presse the deadliest suicide at- KANO tacks targeting soldiers in recent years.. At least 27 Nigerian sol- diers were killed in a jiha Tanker blast. dist suicide attack in the Meanwhile, 18 3persons northeast, two  Army were killed in a truck acci- sources said on Sunday. dent in south-eastern Nige- On  Friday,  troops ria, a week after a petrol launched a ground offen- tanker explosion left at sive on a stronghold of Is least 98 dead. Those killed Iamic State-affiliated mili- had been burnt "beyond tants in a wasteland recognition". straddling Borno and Yobe "The tanker, which was states. loaded with premium mo- "The suicide attack tor spirit, experienced killed 27 soldiers, includ- break failure and the driv- ing the commander, and er lost grip of the wheels left several others seriously before crashing" into 17 injured," a military officer other vehicles, sparking a said, making this one of fire.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 153903.png]
BSF to hoId talks with BGB in Delhi from February 16 to 20 The next round of biannual Director-General level talks between the Border Security Force (BSF) and Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) will be held in Delhi from February 16 to 20, the first time after the regime change in the neighbouring country, a government official said. The talks that were previously slated to be held in October 2024 were postponed due to the ongoing political situation in Bangladesh. The talks were previously held in Dhaka. Fencing of border areas, trans-border crimes, and coordinated patrolling will be on the agenda, the official said.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154036.png]
MDL-TKMS bid for P-75I submarine tender clears technical evaluation Dinakar Peri states that the first subma- NEW DELHI rine should have indige- nous content (IC) of 45% The multi-billion dollar which should up to 60% deal for six advanced con- for the sixth and last sub- ventional submarines un- marine. The key determi- der project-751 has crossed nant, however, to qualify a major milestone with the for P-75I is the Air Indepen- bid by Mazagon Dock Ship. dent Propulsion (AIP) mo- builders Limited (MDL), dule, which enhances the Mumbai, and Germany's endurance and stealth of a TKMS (Thyssenkrupp Ma- The compliance checks of the two bids received were completed in submarine. The AIP mo- rineSystems)  having June last year as part of the field evaluation trials. FILE PHOTO dule became the real deter- cleared the technical eval- minant for qualifying the uation conducted by the commercial bid submitted were under scrutiny in the technical criteria. Defence Ministry. The bid by MDL has been opened Ministry. The bids were The design offered by by Larsen & Toubro along by the Ministry of Defence opened last week and the TKMS, in partnership with with Navantia of Spain has (MoD) for further process. bid by MDL-TKMS was de- MDL, is based on its highly not cleared the evaluation. ingr the MDL said on clared technically com- successful Class 214 subma- The benchmarked price Thursday as per require- plaint, according to official rine and Class 212CD and of 243,000 crore for the ments of the market regu- sources. "The commercial has an operationally pro- deal was set a decade ago, lator Securities and Ex- negotiations will now com- ven AIP module. Navantia and given the technologi- change Board of India. mence based on the price has offered a submarine cal upgrades since and fac- The compliance checks quoted in the bid submit- based on its new S80 class toring in the inflation and of the two bids received ted," a source stated. of submarines, the first of currency fluctuations, the were completed in June The Request For Propo- which was launched in final cost is expected to see  last year as part of the Field sal (RFP) issued by the Na- 2021 and commissioned in- a major upward revision. Evaluation Trials (FET) and vy for the programme de- to the Spanish Navy as S-81 "MDL confirms that the the reports were since tailing the specifications 'Isaac Peral' in 2023.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154042.png]
Indian Navy finishes survey of Mauritius The Hindu Bureau dent Dharambeer Gokhool NEW DELHI on Thursday. "The creation of a new The Indian Navy's INS Sar- nautical chart will enable vekshak completed the fi- Mauritius to develop its nal phase of the hydro- maritime infrastructure, graphic  survey of resource management and Mauritius covering an ex- coastal development plan- tensive area of over 25,000 ning. It reflects the endur- square nautical miles. The ing partnership between fair sheet of the survey, India and Mauritius in fos- along with newly prepared tering maritime develop- nautical charts, were for- ment and regional cooper- mally handed over to Presi- ation, the Navy said..

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154127.png]
DHAKA Bangladesh frees 178 paramilitary troops over deadly 2009 mutiny AFP Bangladesh released 178 former paramilitary troops on Thursday, nearly 16 years after their detention for a violent mutiny in 2009 that resulted in 74 deaths, including of Army officers, destabilising the government of then-premier Sheikh Hasina. The troops had been acquitted of murder but faced charges related to explosives. AFP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154135.png]
JENIN Hundreds leave West Bank camp during Israeli raid, says official AP Hundreds of residents in the Jenin refugee camp have begun evacuating their homes on Thursday amid a large-scale Israeli military operation. Israeli forces reportedly ordered evacuations using loudspeakers, though the Army claimed it was unaware of any such orders. The operation has resulted in many casualties. aP

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154222.png]
India, Indonesia set to discuss Myanmar conflict during talks Kallol Bhattacherjee The chain of engage- NEW DELHI ments indicated that both the countries are trying to The raging. conflict in establish dialogue between Myanmar will feature pro- the military junta in Nay minently in discussions Pyi Taw and the ethnic between visiting Indone- armed organisations that sian President Prabowo have capturedlarge Subianto and Prime Minis- amounts of territory of ter Narendra Modi during Myanmar, including vast the weekend, sources said. tracts of land near its bor- Mr. Subianto, who will be ders with India's north- the chief guest at the Repu- eastern States. blic Day celebrations, be- The situation in Myan- gan his official meetings by The meeting of Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto (right) with mar has escalated over the calling on External Affairs External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in New Delhi on Friday. PTI last year, with the military Minister S. Jaishankar and junta losing control over meeting industry bigwigs ders in the conflict-torn India recently hosted a areas in Chin state, Rak- on Friday. southeast Asian country. number of ethnic armed  hine, and the Sagaing re- The inclusion of the pre- Sources mentioned that organisations from Myan- gion. Maungdaw near the vailing scenario in Myan- the two sides will discuss mar as well as members of Indo-Bangladesh frontier mar in the official agenda is several "regional issues in- the exiled National Unity was the latest town to fall significant as both India cluding the tension around Government. to the Arakan Army in De- and Indonesia have been the South China Sea" dur- India hosted them at the cember 2024. trying to stitch up a dia- ing the official talks that Indian Council of world Af- logue process among va- will be held in Hyderabad fairs, soon after Indonesia CONTINUED ON rious domestic stakehol- House on Saturday. also hosted such groups. > PAGE 10

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154322.png]
Pralay, India's first quasi-ballistic missile,. to be showcased at Republic Day parade Dinakar Peri Leyland 12x12 high-mobili- NEW DELHI ty vehicle as seen during the ongoing rehearsals for The Defence Research and the Republic Day parade. Development Organisation In 2023, the Defence Ac- (DRDO) is set to showcase quisition Council (DAC) ap- "Pralay", an indigenous proved procurement of the short-range quasi-ballistic Pralay tactical ballistic mis- missile, at the Republic siles with a range of 400 Day parade in New Delhi  km and Nirbhay long-range on Sunday. subsonic land attack cruise  Meant for the Army and missiles with a range of the Air Force, Pralay is the 1,000 km, both of which first ballistic missile in In- will give a long-range con- dia's arsenal for conven- The Pralay Weapon System on display during the full dress. ventional strike option for tional strikes. The Army's rehearsal for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi on Thursday. PTI the Indian military. Put to- Battle Surveillance System gether, a few hundred mis- "Sanjay" will also be part missile strikes across the now complete, officials siles were approved for of the parade. border. It is meant for de- said, noting that the De- procurement by the DAC. With a range of 400 kilo- ployment along both the fence Ministry had already A new derivative of metres, Pralay adds to the Line of Control (LoC) and accorded the Acceptance Nirbhay, which has been BrahMos and Parahar mis- the Line of Actual Control of Necessity for its induc- under development for ov- siles already in the invento- (LAC). tion. The system features a er a decade now, has been ry, giving the Indian mili- The development trials twin launcher configura- flight-tested recently and tary an option for stand-off of Pralay are over and it is tion mounted on an Ashok trials are under way.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154510.png]
JERUSALEM Lebanon troop pullout will. continue beyond 60-day deadline'. GETTY IMAGES Israel announced on Friday that the withdrawal of its forces from southern Lebanon would continue beyond the 60-day period. stipulated in a November ceasefire agreement with Hezbollah. The comment comes despite earlier calls from UN peacekeepers for. "accelerated" implementation of the deal. arp.

[Extracted from Screenshot 2025-02-10 154528.png]
Taliban reject court move to arrest its top officials Associated Press ing women, accusing the court he had requested arrest war- ban have barred women from KABUL of baseless accusations and rants for two top Taliban offi- jobs, most public spaces and misbehaviour. cials, including the leader Hi-  education beyond sixth grade. The Taliban on Friday rejected The International Criminal batullah Akhundzada. A Foreign Ministry state- a court move to arrest two of Court's chief prosecutor Karim Since they took back control ment condemned the ICC their top officials for persecut-  Khan announced on Thursday of the country in 2021, the Tali- request.

[Extracted from a519bcdd-6f07-4194-8c58-48a5a258167c.jpg]
Air India set for major global expansion, says CEO Wilson PReSs TruSt OF InDIA New Delhi, January 1 Campbell wilson, CEO & mD. Air InDIa /All 30,000 Air Indians are fully com- AIR IndIa Has covered a lot of.  ground since privatisation and its mitted'to improving the quality and global coverage will further consistency of our services, in all increase in theyears ahead, the air- areas, so that Air India becomes the line's chief Campbell Wilson said on Wednesday. world-class airline we all want it to be.  He also said the interior refit of the single-aisle fleet, serving domestic and short-haul interna- tional destinations, is underway, AI first airline to roll out and will be completed by mid- 2025. Loss-making Air India was Wi-Fi on domestic fleet.  acquired by the Tata Group from the government in January 2022, 1.AIR-INDIA  and is undergoing an ambitious five-year transformation plan.  In 2024, Air India completed the merger of Vistara with itself as well as integration of Air India 0&3 Express and AIX Connect was also.. done. PrIvAte CArrIer aIR India on when above10,000 feet, it said.  In his New Year message, Wilson Wednesdayrolledout Wi-Fi inter- The deployment ofWi-Fi on  saidthese mergers and newaircraft net connectivity services on domestic routes follows an deliveries have taken Air India board domestic andintemationa! ongoing pilot programme on Group'sfleetto 300aircraft,allow- flights on its widebody Airbus. international services operated ing it to expandto over 100 domes- A350 and Bocing 787-9 fleet by the Airbus A350,select Air- tic and international destinations. as well ason select Airbus bus A321 neo and Boe- "Air India's global coverage will A321nco aircraft. ing B787-9 aircraft  further increase in the years ahead, This makes Air India serving international not least because of the recent addi- the first airline to offer such destinations indluding tionof100 aircraftto our order book, services on flights within New York, London, Paris and augmenting the earlier commit- India,theairline said.  Singapore.As with thedomes- ment for470 madein 2023' hesaid. Accessible on Wi-Fi-enabled tic offer, Wi-Fi is complimen-  The Air India CEO and MD also devices such as laptops, tablets, tary foran introductory period, said these new aircraft will be sup- and smartphones with iOS or Air India said.. ported by a brand-new 12-bay Androidoperating systems,the Air India said it will pro- maintenance facility and mainte-  in-flight Wi-Fi will also allow gressively roll out the service nance trainingschool in Bengaluru guests to connect multiple on other aircraft in its fleet (Karnataka), a new 34-aircraft devices  simultaneously over time. PTI flight school in Amravati (Maha-  rashtra) and the training academy in Gurugram (Haryana). direct flights to intemational des- "All 30,000Air Indians are fully India is one of the world's tinations. committed to improving the qual- fastest growing civil aviation mar- "Air India has covered a lot of ity and consistencyof our services,  kets and efforts are being madeto  ground in the period since privati-  in all areas, so that Air India  make the country a global aviation sation; we acknowledge there's becomes theworld-class airline we.  hub with Indian carriers providing much more to be done. all wantit to be,'he said. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 Read to Leao https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76541551

[Extracted from ab4818c5-1a02-4da9-a200-821a57487e13.jpg]
Extreme penury minimal, researchers cite rising rural mobility, DBT Poverty below 5%,urban-rural gap reducing: SBI Research FE BUREAU rates in real wages for rural occu- SHARP DECLINE IN RURAL NUMBERS New Delhi, January 3 Inflation adjusted poverty line ()  pations over the recent years Rural  Urban  appeartobe atvariance with these  Poverty ratio using HCEs (%) Rural  Urban All India (%) 678' India's poverty fell sharply ,545 estimates.  from close to 22% in 2011-12 to According to the HCEs 2023- 2011-12 000' well under 5% in 2023-24, with 4.9 4.1 7.2 4.6 24,the lowest fractile class in rural almost minimal incidence of 21.9 816 areas at 0-5% had MPCE of 1,677 extreme poverty and a shrinking of 25.7 in 2023-24,up 22% from R1,373  urban-rural gap,researchers at the in 2022-23. In urban areas, the 2023-24 State Bank of India (SBI) have said. corresponding MPCE was 2,376 Citing the results of the House- 2011-12 2022-23  2023-24 in 2023-24, up 18.7% from 4-4.5  hold Consumption Expenditure 2,001 in 2022-23.In 2023-24, 2011-12 2022-23 2023-24 Survey(HCEs) 2023-24 released Source: SBI Rescarch, HCES  the consumption inequality, both last week, SBI group chief eco- in rural and urban areas, declined nomic adviser Soumya Kanti "At an aggregate level, we 37.2%.  India is already below 5%. The  new poverty line for rural areas at from 2022-23. The Gini coeffi- Ghosh said that based on fractile  believe poverty rates in India could These observations corroborate  monetary threshold for poverty set  monthly per capita consumption  cienthas declined to 0.24 in 2023- distribution,rural povertyplunged  nowbe intherangeof4-4.5%with a statement made by Niti Aayog by the Tendulkar committee  expenditure(MPCE)of 1,632 and 24 from 0.27 in 2022-23 for rural from 25.7% in 2011-12 to 7.2% almost minimal existence of  CEO BVR Subrahmanyam in Feb- (2009) was extrapolated by the. for urban areas at 1,944. 2011-  areas and to 0.28 from 0.31 for in 2022-23 to 4.86% in 2023-24. extreme poverty,noted Ghosh. In ruary this year, following the  think tank for making that assess- 12, the respective figures were  urban areas.. Urban poverty declined from 4.6% 2011-12, the poverty rate was  release of HCES 2022-23 results, ment. SBI Reserach has drawn, 2816 and21,000.  in 2022-23 to 4.09% in 2023-24. 21.9% and in 2004-05, it was  that population of the poor in  based on the HCES 2023-24, the However, the negative growth Continued on Page 10 Sat, 04 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS  https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76553379  Read to lead

[Extracted from ad951e74-55cf-4026-9905-59f26c390b87.jpg]
Google's most serious. rival is a start-up. THE Al BOOM of the past two years has largelybeen a two-horse race.Alphabet's Google and Microsoft.-funded OpenAI have duked it out for customers, while Amazon.com and Meta Platforms have nibbled at the margins for market share. But at least one new company has emerged as an outsider with a chance of chal-. lenging their oligopoly..  More than 1 5 million people,according toa spokeswoman,are regularly using Perplexity Al, an"answer engine"that competes with Google's search and adver- tisingbusiness.The website and app shot upin valueover the courseof2 024, from $1 billion at the start of theyear to $9 billion in December when it closed a $500.  million fundinground.Its founder,AravindSrinivas, is aconsummate negotiator who hasplugged himself deeply into SiliconValley's network while diffusing ten-. sionwith competitors and critics. Goingup against Googlehas alwayslooked likea suicidemission.Around 90% of online searches globally are conducted on its site.Microsoft's Bing, after incor- porating ChatGPT two years ago, hasbarelymadea dent in Google's market share, remaining at just 4%. Yahoo's usage has dwindled.A promisingAI start-up called Neeva,run by a former Google ad executive, closed down in 202 3 after four years of tryingtocompetewith Google.. But Perplexity has raised far more moncythan Neeva-- $913 million compared with $ 77 million, accordingto Pitchbook -- and its clean,comprehensive answers are drawing users frustratedwith Google's ad-clogged results,accordingto postings about the app on Twitter, Reddit, and other social media forums, as well as anec- dotes I've heard from users. For now, it's making money from $20-a-month subscriptions, generating $30 million in annual recurring revenue within a year. Srinivas is also shiftinginto Google's core business: advertising. He's betting thatmanyof those infomational querieswill. lead to purchase decisions, such as askingabout the benefits of fish oil or the best TVs to install at home."Almost 8 0% of. Google searches are notmonetisable'he told me. Even ifmost of Google's searches don't directly generate ad revenue, PARMY  they're stillcritical for keepingits position as the go-to scarch OLSON engine. People will come back for the commercial querieson products and services -- and see ads -if they already trust  Bloomberg Google enou gh for queries like weather, facts, and general.  knowledge.He's betting the same willhappento Perplexity.. OpenAI and Google, he's built up an impressive roster of Silicon Valley relation- ships. Elon Muskvisited his companyin the early days and expressed admi ration for Srinivas'hiring restraint (Perplexity has 147 employees today, according to a spokeswoman) He pickedup investors includingAmazon.com founder Jeff Bezos, leadingAI scientist Yann LeCun,and legendary Google engineering chiefJeff Dean. FormerGit Hub chief executive officer andAlinvestor Nat Friedman provided Per- plexity with $380,000 in Microsoft Azure cloudcredits through his AI fund, prov- ing critical when access to AI chips was scarce.  Operating anAI start-upin 2024 usuallyended with beingswallowed by a tech giant.In the past year, three of the most promising newAI firms in Silicon Valley leaders went to Amazon, and CharacterAl's co-founders joined Google..  But Srinivas stands a better chancethan most of remainingindependent, and his biggest advantage might be his grasp of Silicon Valley's political economy.As. a former intern who worked with the creators of the transfomer architecture at Google Brain,he understands both thetechnical foundations of modernAIand the industry's complex web of relationships. His ability to maintain cordi al ties with rivals while defusing tensions with publisherssuggestsheknows howto navigate the long-term challenge of rivalling a tech giant. Google's search business won't crumbleovemight, but in Srinivas,theindustryfinally hasa credibleoutsider who could reshape how we find informationonline. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025. Read to lea. https://epaper.financialexpress.c<

[Extracted from aec2ad60-2b99-437c-8160-a05ce018f763.jpg]
LAUNCH OF MASS MARKET SCOOTERS PAYS OFF Bajaj Auto's EV charge  NARAYANAN V  integrated with its financing arm Chennai, January 5 and credit facilities will be made available to all outlets by end-Janu- THE CHETAK ELECTRIC scooterhas ary.About 34% of its electric scoot-  been a big winner. Its maker Bajaj ers and 50% of its ICE vchicles are Auto notched up an enviable share of. financed through this channel. 25% in the electric two-wheeler Bhavish Aggarwal's Ola Electric,. (E2W) space in December leaving Ola meanwhile, has been struggling to Electric with a share of just 19% and regain share plagued by a surge in  Ather with 14%. With TVS Motor's customer complaints about poor share at 2 3%, the ICE (intemal com- after-sales service. Late September  bustion engine) players are making last year the company switched to a the switch to EVs remarkably well. multi-brand dealer network that The market, however, shrank with would complement its direct-to- total E2w sales falling sharply to consumer (D2 C) sales model; invest- 72,090units in December from1.39 ments to be made the partners lakh units in October and 1.19 lakh would be limited. Essentially, the units in November. retailers would not bear the cost It's been arough ride for Ola Elec- of the inventory, which typically tric which, even in April 2024 accounts for 25-30% of the total enjoyed a 52% share of the market, cost of a traditional dealership. The at the time Bajaj's share was just tabfor themarketing and promotion 11%. Bajaj's success can be credited costs would be picked up by Ola. The company has added 3,200 new  ket and the addition of dealers to its stores, taking its total network to network. Ola was the first to intro- 4,000 showrooms and service cen- duce a range of scootersbelow the 1 ters nationwide. Ola got off to a fairly THE lakh mark, a segment into which BIG good start in2024 strong,selling1.2 in first pOsitiOn Bajaj and TVS had not ventured. The Iakh units in the first quarter.There- company, which revived the iconic after, sales volume started falling 100  Chetak brand forelectric scooters in and; volumes in Q2 sales were down  2020, had been focused on the pre- to 1.08 lakh units and in the Sep- PICTUrE  mium segment pricingitsvehicles at tember quarter to 94,171 units. By 80  more than 1.2 lakh. In June 2024, the last quarter of the year,volumes however, Bajaj shifted gears launch- 12 had dropped off tosub-85,o00 units. 18 15 18 ing the Chetak 2901, priced at 19 18 Experts say the company needs 60.19 22 96,000 to target the sub-1 lakh 1N JUNE 2024, BAJAJ 12 20 23 to address the issue of after-sales.  mass market. Its monthly sales vol- 14 11 service before it can see a meaning- 13 13 17 SHIFTED GEARS umes, which were clocking just over ful pick-up in volumes.Jeffery Jacob, 40 . 7, 500units inApril,nearly tripled to 21  Partner and Head (Automotive) at LAUNCHING THE 22 18,035 unitsbyDecember. 25 KPMG in India,points out that while In fact, the e-scooter market, ini- CHETAK 2901, PRICED 52 48 20 -39-41-k 46 the D2C model helps new players 38 39 tially dominated by the premium scale up quickly, it is the physical AT 96,000TO TARGET 27 3 segment,tilted toward mass-market store network that ensures sus-  products in the latter half of the year. THE SUB-1 LAKH tained sales and helps address ser- Affordable modelsthat offerreduced 0. Jan' Feb' Mar  Apr May June' July' Aug'Sept Oct' Nov' Dec vice concerns. MASS MARKET range,lower top speed, slower accel- Over 2024, Ola sold 4.07 lakh Market share (%) Ol Electric BajajAuto ' Tvs Motor oOthers Source: Vahan eration, and basic consoles and now units while TVS and Bajaj together account fora major share of sales for sold alittle moreat 4.1 lakh units. But the top three. Industry estimates it promises to be a whole new space suggest Bajaj now commands 36% the 3201, 3202,2903,and the 3201 For instance, Flipkart has been offer- with higher price points. this year with alot more competition. of the sub-1 lakh market, a seg- Special Edition.To sell its widerrange ingdiscounts of up to <7,000 on the  Hemal NThakkar,Senior Practice Honda's tipped to make its entry ment that was once Ola's domain. It of products, Bajaj has been expand- Chetak 3202, along with flexible  Leader, Crisil, observes that about while Hero MotoCorp has just is not as though Bajaj Auto has alto- ing its sales network. Chetak scoot- EMI options. Bajaj has reportedly 50% of 2-wheelers are financed. launched variants of its Vida E2Ws-- getherabandoned thepremium seg- ers are now sold through 3,000  sold over 10,000 Chetak scooters via  today compared with 30-35% pre- V2 Lite (96,000), v2 Plus (1,15 ment. Lastweck,two newversions of touch points, compared to TVS Amazon and Flipkart since 2023. Covid. "Traditional OEMs have a lakh), and V2 Pro (1.35 lakh)--tar- the Chetak electric scooter-3501 Motor's 750+ touch points. Bajaj Meanwhile, Bajaj is leveraging its getting both the sub-1 lakh and pre- and 3502-under the latest 35 plans to expand this network to captive financing arm Bajaj Auto  standing relationships with financ- mium segments. Others too are! series,were introduced. The vehicles. 4,000 by January 2025. Moreover, Credit. Financing has become a cru- ing companies, perceived product  readyingto make launches soit won't were priced above 21.2 lakh and  the company is also tappinginto e- cial driver of the two-wheeler mar- quality, and after-sales value,' he  be easy for Bajaj to hold on to its share. complement existingmodels suchas commerce channels to boost sales. ket, especially for electric scooters  adds. Over 70% of Bajaj's stores are But it might yet stay the leader. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 2025 @0  https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76563350 Read to Lead

[Extracted from b6e82bc3-1ec8-4202-8c79-e45bc70a860c.jpg]
GOOGLE WILLOW  speedingup machine learning, MAN & MACHINE transforming optimisation. Separating hype problems, inproved simulations, AI, convergence,  enhanced pattem recognition. The technology behind Willow is sophisticated.The chip features and beyond  105 qubits - about double the from reality nu mber on Google's previous Sycamore chip.It has made strides in error correction,and o Firms poised to scale  scaling qubits while maintaining like real-time analytics and high computational fidelity. autonomous systems. Moreover,  up AI deployments The challenge till now for the synergy of AI and emerging WHEN GOOgLe UnVEILED its new technologies, Willow's advancements in  into full production technologies will redefine indus-  quantum computing chip, Willow,the errorcorrection and computational speed systems has been noise. Google tries,drivinga future of intelligent, has demonstrated that usingan  collaborative innovation. announcement created a lot ofexcitement gives Google acompetitive edge. enror correcting algorithm,called Agentic Al will define the next and curiosityin the tech communityaround. However, experts caution that game- surface code, they could reduce technologyfrontierofgenerativeAI,  the world. The breakthrough marks a changing technologies like these don't come. Quantum the error on their system.The  driven by an evolution towards com- significant developmentin quantum without hurdles and Willow's current more qubits they use in Willow, pound 'Al systems that can autonomouslyinteract withotherAI computing - a field of computer science that. applications remain largelyexperimental. will provide a the more quantum the system  promises to disrupt everything from  Also, there are issues around infrastructure becomes. This historic humans through natural language  ALOk Ohrie healthcare to finance to scientific research. readiness and cost barriers in its path to  real kick to AI  accomplishmentis known in the conmunication. Enterprises will wideradoption. need to rapidly evolve their technol-  Because in under five minutes, Willow can able to drive errors down while IN 2024, THE global technology solve tasks that would take even the world's. What makes Willow special? What will be AJAi ChoWdhry  scaling up the numberof qubits. 1andscape witnessed remarkable  most advanced supercomputers thousands, its implications across the industries? What Each step like this will help us to breakthroughs across computersci- tectures, which will driveinnovation are the challenges it has to overcome?  millions, oreven septillions of yearsto CHAIRMAN, THE MISSION  create practical scalable ence,dataarchitecturesandAL.Ithas  in DataOps, IT operations manage. GOVERNING BOARD, NATIONAL Sudhir Chowdhary spoke to some industry  created pivotal transformations in  ment,manufacturing andlogistics.  crack. While companies like IBM and QUANTUM MISSION OF INDIA" sectors such as manufacturing, experts to put things into perspective.  Microsoft are also advancing quantum research as real powerful defence, BFSI, fintech and health- GOOgle's WILlOwiSa quantum computers are still care, setting the stage for more rev- Willow is more of a tech demonstrator demonstrationofwhat  far away in the horizon.  olutionary advancements to follow quantum can do. It can Closer home, the National  in the comingyear. transform quantum  Quantum Mission has AI continued its rapid evolution, ANIL PRABHAKAR larger systems. case.Cybersecurityis oneofthe  computingfrom technical  plans to make 1000 qubit with significant strides in GenAl, The ch allenges of low temperature  problems of strategic interest,and curiosity to a practical system in the next eight  enhancing natural language pro-  PROFESSOR, DEPT OF ELECTRICAL  and scalabilityexist.Most industry theharvest-now-decrypt-later  tool. Though there is no  years for which funding cessingand content creation.AI-dri- ENGINEERING, IIT MADRAS  problems in domains of  practical use at has started to flow  ven diagnostics have improved finance and logistics must look at today and protect present,Willow to researchers  patient outcomes, bolstered fraud COMpAnIes LIKE GOOGLE  come with thousands  themselves.  opens the door to a workingwith  detectionin financeandstreamlined invest heavily, build large teams, of variables.Thisis It could easily bea decade  multitude of AI- the Computing  processes in data management, and provide forlongterm  also trueif we attempt  before wehave alarge scale  driven possi-  T Hub at IISc, improving accuracy andefficiency. research. While Willowrepresents  bilities like  Bangalore.  Privacy concerns and regulatory  problems in  general purposequantum  Advancements in data storage  asignificant leap forward in the  chemistry and biology computer. The roadmap of  and processing technologies have  diver sity are spurring nations across field of quantum computing, I of more than a few  many companies nowsays enabled more efficient handling of the world to adopt sovereign AI  don't think the chip will enable  molecules or proteins. hybrid quantum-classical Large quantum computers streaming and massive datasets, strategies, fostering localised AI  advanced AI systems anytime Consequently, we crucial for IoT,Al and machine leam- ecosystems tailored to their culture,  so we can leverage  soon. The technology demon- will need millions smaller quantum  ing applications. The  Ianguage, anddata secu- a reality in the near future St ratoron Willow is that of fault  of noisy qubits  processingunits development of snaller, rityneeds.Countrieslike  tolerance.It remains to be seenif  before we can  to do specific India are els has gained momen- YEAR  this will hold true for 1000 times  see aviable use tasks. national AI infrastruc- Jaspreet BindrA in minutes that would take  tum as researchers and AHEAD tures and promoting dlassical computers septillions of  organisations prioritise  public-private collabora- CO-FOUNDER & CEO, AI&BEYOND An inspiration for India's Quantum Mission  years, quantum technology accessibility,speed and -nou nannn nn onn 2025  promises breakthroughsin cost-effectiveness. ernise and scale their THe WILLOW COMPUTInG chip dimate modeling,drug 2025 is set to be  ecosystems with a focus AShOK ChAnDAK  our own development, collaborate  problems, we need millionsof  marks a significant milestone in discovery,logistics, andAI transformative, withAI  on national intellectual  and get knowledge sharing from. stablequbits. Right now, the most aannnnn nannnnn mnnnnn  advancements,potentially at the forefront. Enterprises will scale  propertyand differentiatedAI value. PRESIDENT, INDIAELECTRONICS & Google, focus on applicationsand  advanced quantumcomputers scalability, stability, and error  reshaping industries..  AI deployments, creating reusable The future of Al lies in human-AI  SEMICONDUCTOR ASSOCIATION  only have dozens to a fewhundred, However, challenges like qubit algorithmsdevelopment. correction - key to achieving foundations to hamessits potential. collaboration and partnerships Quantum computing has the. and they're hard to control.Also, fault-tolerant quantum instability, extreme cooling. AI's convergence with Zero Trust bet ween enterprises and tech inno-  The success OF Google isa  potential to revolutionise multiple  there is a need for development of systems. Its high-fidelity requirements, and scalable security,6G,digitaltwins,intelligent vators.As AI arms us with actionable shotin the arm for India's fieldsbysolving problemsthat  advanced semiconductor mate- qubits address critica! system develop ment  edge and quantum computing will! insights from complex data and  Quantum Computing  are intractable forclassical rials, tools, andprocesses that are challenges,intensifying remain formidable.  drive new innovation and discovery. automates routinetasks,humanswill Mission as this . computers. The susceptibility essential for quantum hardware.  the global quantum race  In India, the National Quantumcomputingcombined focus on strategic thinking, creativ-  demonstrates the of qubits to environmental  In 3-5 years, we can see pilot  involving Google, IBM,  Mission on Quantum with AI will revolutionise industries ity, and decision-making. As we step  feasibility and great disturbanceshasbeena projects of willow in logistics, Microsoft, and others, Technologies, supported like material science, drug discoy-  into the new year, man-machine col- persistent barrier torealising  potentialof quantum finance,Al,and drugdiscovery  while showcasing quantum by global partnerships, ery,diagnosticsand protein synthe-  laboration will define the frontierof computingandwill act a practical quantum systems. space. Large-scale disruption computing's academic research,  sis,through unparalleled computa-  transformation, paving theway for a  motivation to Another challengelies across multiple sectors, including transformative and startups, tional capabilities. Meanwhile,  strengthen the  in scalingup the cybersecurity and climate potential.  provides a robust intelligent edge solutions will  ecosystem India system To solve  science,can happen only With the ability  frameworkfor  enable faster,morelocalisedAI pro- The writer is president & managing should speed up  meaningful after a decade from now.  to solve problems I growth. director, Dell Techinologies India  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76542014

[Extracted from b90727cf-b56e-47c0-860c-18999765e31f.jpg]
More flights to Thailand and Malaysia as visa-free entry spurs Indian traffic SUKALP SHARMA New Delhi, January 3 IN THE AUTUMNof 2023,Thai- express: land and Malaysia extended visa-freeentrytoIndian nation-  als in the hope of attracting tourists from the countryat a  time when they were travelling overseas like never before. Slow post-pandemic eco- AdiGo nomic recovery in China had evidently hit tourist inflows to SoutheastAsian hotspots, while 0: India's recovery in terms of intenational passenger traffic was booming Emerging desti- nations in other regions, partic- FLYING HIGH ularly CentralAsia and the Cau- casus,also pickedup in termsof  In the December quarter of 2024,  With the interest among Indian tourists. the total number of flights in both inclusion of A year on, both Southeast directions between India and the these flights to Asian nations appear pleased two countries rose 29.2% y-o-y Penang (from withthe results,so muchso that to 14,409 Chennai), IndiGo they have decided to extend the New flights: IndiGo's Chennai- will now operate visa-free entry facilityfor Indian 28 weekly flights passport holders further.Avia- Penang & Bengaluru-Langkawi flights;. tionandtravelindustryinsiders Air India Express's flights to Bangkok to Malaysia from Pune, Lucknow, Surat, & Amritsar, from two cities. saythe visawaivershave stimu- lated demand for travel to Thai- & its Hyderabad-Phuket service in India land and Malaysia, which air-  lines have recognised. in the Jan-Marchquarter, Thailand and Malaysia'3 Data shows that the number the numberofflights isset major cities-Bangkok of Indians travelling to the two torise to16131, witha countrics has grownin the wake significant international of these measures, and airlines aviationhubs  have jumped at the opportunity by significantly increasing capacity between India and the India's official data for intema- number of new flights. These two countries by adding flights  tionalairpassengers is available include IndiGo's" Chennai- and destinations. In the Decem- onlyuntilthe June quarterofthe Penang and Bengaluru-  ber quarter of 2024, the total current fiscal, and even that Langkawi flights; Air India number offlights in both direc- shows a significant increase in Express's flights to Bangkok tions between Indiaand the two traffic over the corresponding  from Pune,Lucknow, Surat,and countries rose 29.2% y-0-y to periodlast year. Amritsar, and its Hyderabad 14,409,with the deployed seat In the past year or so,Indian Phuketservice;Air India's Delhi- capacity rising 26.6% to 28.02 airlines as well as those from  Kuala Lumpur and Delhi- lakh, accordingto an analysis of Southeast Asia have launched a. Phuket flights.  data from aviation analyticsg FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 00 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76555696 Read to Lzad ()

[Extracted from ba894c22-964b-4417-accf-83b14722911f.jpg]
Why do you feel tired of systemic conditions like arthritis or gout. Therefore, persistent foot pain Should be evaluated professionally to  determine the exact causeandappropri- ate treatment approach. academic  perfor-  ing, reduced mental clarity (often Know how and mance pressure,  described as brain fog), slower reaction When does fatigue become a cause social expectations,  times, and impaired decision-making for concern? why chronic and future career  abilities.Emotionally,fatigue can lead to  Fatigue becomes a serious concern. concerns contribute irritabilit, mood swings, and decreased fatigue happens when it persists despite adequate rest to mental exhaus-  motivation to engagein regular activi-  and significantly impacts daily function- ties. People often report feeling over- tion, which mani-  ing. Waming signs include fatigue last- fests as physical  whelmed by simple tasks that previously FE FEATURES Dr Rakesh fatigue. Environ-  seemed manageable.Sleep patterns may by unexplained weight loss, fever, or Gupta  mental factors like  be affected,leadingto either insomniaor night sweats. When fatigue interferes mOSt youngsteRs THesE days fre  pollutionand indoor excessive sleepinessthroughouttheday. with work performance, social relation-  quently complain of fatigue. Dr Rakesh lifestyles with limited exposure to nat- Physical performance decreases, with ships, or basic daily activities, it requires Gupta, senior consultant,internal medi-  ural light and fresh air can also impact  individuals finding ithardertomaintain  cine, IndraprasthaApollo Hospitals,says:  energy levels. The combination of these  their usual exercise routines or even "This happens due to multiple interre-  factors, along with potential underlying complete basic daily activities. Other doesn't improve with rest, post-exer- lated factors in our modern lifestyle. health issues like vitamin D deficiency,  common manifestations include diges-  tional malaise lasting more than 24 Irregular sleep pattems, often driven by tive issues, weake ned immune system  hours, or fatigueaccompanied by new or  academic pressure,social media use,and creates a perfect storm for chronic leading to frequent infections, and  screen time before bed, significantly fatigue among younger populations" reduced stress tolerance.  disrupt their natural circadian rhythm.  Poor dietary habits,including excessive How does fatigue manifest itself? Arc foot and sole pain merely side fatigue should prompt professiona! consumption of processed foods and Fatigue manifests through a diverse indicators offatigue? evaluation. Additionally, if fatigue is irregularmealtiming,failto provide sus-  rangeof physical, mental, and emotional  Pain in feet andsolesis not exclusivdly  accompanied by chronic pain, cognitive tained energy throughout the day. Phys-  an indicatorof fatigue but can be attrib- choices,prolongedstanding,orexcessive  additional pressure on feet, leading to difficulties, or signs of organ dysfunc-  ical inactivity, largely due to sedentary  Physicall, individuals may experience uted to multiple underlying causes. walking without proper support can chronic pain. Occupational factors,  tion, immediate medical consultation is  behaviours like prolonged sitting during  persistent tiredness despite adequate While fatigue can contribute to foot dis-  cause mechanical stress on feet.Medical  including jobs requiring long periods of necessary. The presence of other health classes andscreen-based entertainment, rest, muscle weakness,headaches, and  comfort, these symptoms often indicate  conditions such as diabetes, peripheral standing or walking on hard surfaces,  conditions like diabetes,heart disease, or  reduces stamina and energylevels.Addi- reduced coordination. Cognitive mani- structural issues like flat feet, high.  ncuropathy, or circ ulatory problems may contribute significantly to foot discom-  autoimmune disorders makes fatigue tionally, psychologi cal stressors such as festationsinclude difficulty concentrat-  arches, or plantar fasciitis. Poor footwear  also manifest as foot pain. Obesity puts fort. Sometimes,foot pain can be a sign  monitoringparticularly important.  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76558676

[Extracted from bd255058-6445-4719-8484-35ba41bcfbd8.jpg]
HUL nears deal to buy D2C brand Minimalist for <3k cr o Profitable since IN THE CART  Minimalist sells FY21,beauty startup its products The founders of online through its outlier in the space Minimalist, Jaipur-based own website and siblings Mohit and Rahul e-commerce Yadav, together own CHUL's investment arm channels like AYANTI BERA 83.7% ofthe company Unilever.Ventures Nykaa as well as Bengaluru, January 3 invested inMinimalist's through offline Most ofthe company's SeriesAround in 2021 channels FMCG MAJOR HINDUSTAN Unilever products are priced is in talks to acquire direct-to-con-. between 300-700  and holds a minor stake sumerbeautystartupMinimalistina deal valued at >InSiDE< about 3,000 : MOhIt yAdAV, CO-FOUNDer ANd CEO, MINImAUST crore ($350 mil- .*. FMCG lion). That's well We don't believe a lot in terms of REVENUE above Minimal- the pricing growth lever, instead GROWTH LKeLy tO ists' last known we focus on more innovation and STAY MUTED valuation of finding gaps which can be tapped PAGE 4 around $75 mil- lion. HUL's invest- mentarmUnileverVentures invested in Minimalist's SeriesAroundin2021 per Tracxn data. The company had 350 crore in FY24, an 86% jump and holds aminority stake. raised a $2-million seed round in over the preceding financial year. If the deal goes through, Mini- 2019 from Peak XV and then $15 Most ofthe company's products malist would join a host of beauty million in Series A two years later. are priced between 300-700.*We and personal care brands at HUL Like most new-age beauty star- don't believe a lot in terms of the like Dove, Pond's, Lakme, Lux, Sim- tups, Minimalist sells its products pricing growth lever, instead we ple, Acne-Squad and Lifebuoy.. online through its own website and focus on more innovation and find- The founders of Minimalist,  e-commerce channelslike Nykaaas ing gaps which can be tapped, co- Jaipur-based siblings Mohit and well as through offline channels.Its. founder and CEO Mohit Yadav had RahulYadav,togetherown 83.7%of skincare and haircare products, told FE in a recent interaction. the company, while the earliest which focuses on active ingredi.  backer Peak XV holds a 6% stake as ents, have helped its revenue riseto Continued on Page 10 Sat, 04 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper :financialexpress.com/c/76556039 read to Lead

[Extracted from c7c870b8-895a-459b-9583-a913676d8757.jpg]
IIT-KANPUR SAW 133% RISE IN NUMBER OFWOMEN Six years after quota for women. at llTs, changes are quite visible. VIDHEESHA KUNTAMALLA  2021 marked its highest ever  security cameras and hired WOMEN IN IITS: A GRADUAL SHIFT & PALLAVI SMART  female enrolment of 746. more women guards."We have NEW DELHI, RooRKEE,  IIT Delhi, too, has an open  installed over 300cameras on  IIT KANPUR, MUMBAI, j year total jFEmALe StuDents  house for women students and campus" says Major Reeti  JANUARY 5 STUDENTS |(UG+ PG) IN% their parents, where they are Upadhyay, Deputy Registrar, From more hostels and encouraged to meet faculty 1IT Roorkee.  2017 2,878 washrooms for female stu- Delhi  and explore the campus. Aprofessor from IIT Delhi's 2024 |3,381 24 dents to their own sports  Preeti Aghalayam, Director Department of Civil Engineer- teams -- a silent revolutionhas | 2017 [2,790 20.40 of IrT Madras's Zanzibar cam- ing says he keeps his office been taking shape at. the  Bombay  pus -- the first woman to serve 2024 3,361 20.60  door open if a female student Indian Institutes ofTechnol- as director at an IIT --says that wishes to speak with him."I ogy (ITs) over the last sixyears, 2017-18 3,340 17.60 when she did her chemical have adopted a more sensitive  Kharagpur ever since a supernumerary  2024-25** [4,167 22.90  engineering from IIT Madras  approach to teaching now. !  quota of 20%was set aside for between 1991 and 1995, the don't scold girlsas much when | 2017-18 6,420 1410 women. Kanpur percentage of women in her they make mistakes because I  The quota, under which 1 2024-25 9,525 22.36 undergraduate class was  feel uncomfortableif they start extra seats were created  2019-20***7,959 "extremely small. 18.70 crying"hesays. "Back then, the women's The growing female pres- instead of reserving them in Roorkee. 2024-25 10,866 24.16 the existing pool, was imple- hostel was located far from all ence has also meant a new  mented in 2018 based on the { 2017-18 |2,365 17.84 the other hostels since the sports culture -- both IIT Delhi recommendations of a com- Madras number of women at IIT 3,073 and Bombay have their own  2024-25 2124 mittee led by then IIT-Mandi Madras was miniscule. The women's football teams. Director Timothy Gonsalves, | 2017:18 [1,661 17.57 campus looks and feels very Ravinder Kaur, Professor which called it "the required Guwahati 2024-25 different now. Class sizes have Emeritus, 2,269 23.101 Department of slight push" while most IITs  doubled, classrooms have dif- Humanities and Social Sci- Source: Data obtained through RT!: * Only 1st Seme ster numbers givenin.e. implemented a 14% quota for ferentperspectivesand thereis ences, IIT Delhi, and PG,**1nformation availableuntil 1i.11.2024,* women in 2018-19, by 2019- a new energy on campus," she  researcheron womenin STEM, the instit ute shared details 20 it stood at 19% and by says. 2021-22, most of them had Wit hthat,gendersensitisa- grounds were dominated by 20% seats for women. Bombay, of 2,790 students in to the All India Survey on  tionhas becomea part of daily  men, something that deterred Six years on, data obtained 2017, 570 or 20.43% were Higher Education for 2021- institutional life.  girls who wanted to practise or by The Indian Express under women.  2022, the last year for which Pradeep Srivastava,Associ-  play sports.In the past, men's the Right to Information(RTI)  Meanwhile, If Kanpur was  the data is available, women ate Professor, Department of hostels were closer to all the Act from 21 of the 23 IITs  the last among the seven first-  make up around 48% of the Earth Sciences at IIT Roorkee, activity centres and the reveals a steady increase in the gencration IITs to cross the total enrolment, almost on a  and amember of the institute's ground. Now, at IIT Delhi, number of women entering 20% female enrolment mark, par with men. Internal Complaints Commit- women's hostels have also these prestigious institutes. reachingthemilestoneonlyin Yet, given the technical tee,says more women on cam-  moved closer to the activity At IIT-Kanpur, the number 2021. Of its 7,716 students  nature of IfT's, the gender ratio  pus has meant a check on the spaces." of women rose from 908 that year, 1,691 or 21.92%  at these premier engineering "male-centric  approach". At IIT Bombay, gender sen- women in 2017 to 2,124 in "Every time there is a case of  were women. institutes continue to be sitisation .workshops are 2024 - a 133% jump.At IIT- Like IIT Kanpur, other first- skewed in favour of men. It's sexual harassment orragging.  mandatoryfor all students and Roorkee, the number went up  generation IITs too achieved this that the scheme attempts we have observed aprogressive staff, including securityper- from 1,489 in 2019-20 to this benchmark at varying to change, with individual change -- it no longer starts  sonnel,says a student council 2,626 in 2024 -- a 76.36% speeds.lIITs Guwahati, Kharag- institutes implementing a with blaming the female stu- member. jump. IITs in Chennai, Mum-  pur and Madras joined the  string of measures to make dent"he says. Despite these changes, bai, Guwahati and Kharagpur, ranks in 2019, with female campuses  friendlier for  Srivastava's colleague  challenges remain -- stereo-  too, saw similarincreases. representation of 22.42%, women. Naveen Kumar, Professor, types, mentorship gaps and According to the data, IITs 21.39% and 20.75%,respec-  In 2020, 1IT Bombay intro- Department of Biosciences lackof indusivespaces,among Delhi and Bombay crossed the tively. IIT-Roorkee followed  duced special orientation ses- and Bioengineering, and Dean, others. 20% threshold as early as suit in 2020, where 1,749 or  sions for girls who had cleared Academic Affairs, says he Sarani Saha, Chairperson, 2017 -- even before the quota 20.08% were women out of  JEE-Advanced and their par- ensures he calls his femalestu- Gender Cell, IT Kanpur, says was implemented. Of IIT 8,708 students. ents on why they should  dents to his office "in pairs to  much remains to be doneeven Delhi's 2,878 students that A changing dlassroom  choose the Mumbai campus.  ensurea comfortable environ- now."Women still don't come year, 607 or 21.09% were The increasing presence of The administration claims ment of leaming". forward to complain about women.In the first semesterof women at IITs is in line with that these sessions con- At IIT Roorkee, where four harassment. 2024 at IIT Delhi,that number the broader pattem of a steady  tributed to more girls choosing of 13 hostels are allocated to Despite gender sensitisa- stood at 840 - a rise of increase in their enrolment in  IIT Bombay'- from 570 in women, the administration tion workshops, the progress 38.39%. In the case of IIT  higher education -- according  2017 to 694 in 2024.Theyear  has spent nearly Rs 6 crore on  has been uneven. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 2025 tAd to Lead  https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76567966

[Extracted from c9216780-ad31-45d6-ab9e-613375167033.jpg]
NEW EXPRESSWAYS A new route from Delhi to Chandigarh VIKRAM CHAUDHARY  DELHI TO Chandigarh is a painful road trip, isn't it, with its unending traffic jams and construction at Ambala Kundli, Panipat and Ambala? There's a new route we discov-  ered while testing the new Toyota Taisor's real-world fuel efficiency-- +Kurukshetra  it's longer,you h ave to pay more toll, but saves you both fuel and time,  and takes you via two expressways. The regular route It's theold NH 1 nowcalled NH44  Panipat: (via Panipat, Kamal, Ambala, to Chandigarh).Toll charges are <380,  but due to heavy traffic, we took 7 hours to cover 2 80 km. The Taisor,.  powered by 1.0-litre turbo-petrol engine(R10.55-13.03lakh,depend-  ing on variant),retumed 15 km/litre. The new route. You take Ambala-Hisar highway (NH 152), then the Trans-Haryana  garh arecomplete (and have starte Expressway (NH 152D), and then  showingup on Google Maps). the National Expressway 5  NE 5,  Fuel efficiency  from Delhi to Katra via Amritsar, which then joins the Western  The Taisorret umed 33%highe Peripheral Expressway near Delhi.  fuel efficiency -- the reason is tha  The Taisor covered this distance  on expressways you drive with min of 295 km in 5 hours,and retumed imal acceleration and braking 21 km/litre(driven mostly on cruise  which is more efficient than stop control at 90 km/h). Toll charges,  and-go traffic on congested roads. however, were more (almost 600). It's cheaper, too. On the old NI 44, the Taisor consumed about 1: Why isn't it popular? litres of petrol (at Delhi's price o Partofthereasonis that neither 294.77 perlitre,it meant1,706).  NH 152D nor NE 5 are complete -- .On the expressway, however,th  you can't travel from Delhi to Katra Taisor consumed 14 litres of petrc on thisroad - and it doesn't always (total 1,327)- it notonlycovere. show up on maps. But the sections the extra 220 paid on tolls,butals  that take you from Delhi to Chandi-  saved 2 hours of travelling time. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexp  Ad tote.

[Extracted from c980bce1-316a-4ee6-9f36-c434a3f70499.jpg]
O UNFAIR BURDEN WE NEED A TRANSPARENT SYSTEM THAT CURBS LITIGATION AND A QUICK RESOLUTION PROCESS Rein in tax terrorism  he union Finance min- officials todeferlitigation. istry issued apress releaseon The CBDT should extend the dispute September 24, 2024, saying resolution panel (DRP) process, beyond TV MOHANDAS PAI the Supreme Court (sC) had cases involving transfer pricing, to disposed of 573 direct tax S KRISHNAN resolve at the first appeal level itself. A cases with tax effect of less than  5 crore DRP is a collegium comprising three  due to revised monetary limits for filing Respectively chair man, Aarin Capital Part ners, commissioners of I-Twith a mandate to  appeals. Budget 2024-25 increased the and tax consultant disposeofcases within nine months.The minimum monetary limit for appeals government shouldurgentlycreateade- related to direct taxes, excise and service quate collegia to reduce the appeals tax in Income Tax Appellate Tribunal RISING TAX APPEALS pending with the commissioners of (ITAT),highcourts(HC),andtheSC to <60 income tax [CIT(A)]. Wh ile the minimum lakh, 2 croreand 5 crore.Consequently Details FY21 FY22 FY23  FY24  monetarylimits are set for filing appeals the ministry estimated 843 income tax before the ITAT, HCs and the SC, a maxi- Appeals pending as on 1st April 4,58,015 [4,64,836 | 4,96,470] 5,16,484 (1-T) cases to be withdrawn from the SC, mum time limit of two years should be 2,781 cases from HCs, and 717 from the Appeals instituted during the year 47,752 1,04,678 1,45,273 1,44,064 set for disposingofappealsbefore Crr(A) ITAT- totalling4, 341 cases. Appeals disposed during the year 40,931 73,042 j 1,25,259| 1,11,506  beyond which appealsshould bedeemed "Thissignificantmilestone aligns with in favour of taxpayers. For appeals at Closing number of appeals 1 4,64,836 ! 4,96,472 5,16,484 | 5,49,042 the govemment's efforts to reduce taxlit- higher levels, the CBDT should settle all igation and promote ease of doing busi- cases pending at the ITAT in two years ness' therelease added Thisis agood start  posed of, showing gross mismanage- taxes already paid, levying incorrect and those pending with courts in the  inreduc ing the humun gous tax litigation  ment of dispute resolution.The closing interest,and committingmistakes while next threeyears. Officials with repcated  pendingwithvarious judicial forums.  appeals increased from 4.65 lakh in givingeffect to appeal orders.Audit also  failures in appeals should be punished The monetary impact of the with- 2020-21 to 5.49 lakh in 202 3-24. It is noticed outstanding demand continued for wasting public funds. drawal would bea maximumof <10,200 estimated that 5.80 lakh appeals are to indlude nullified demands. Delay in The CBDT should increase the mini - crore. According to latest receipt Budget pending.Appeals filed prior to April 1, giving effect to appealorders resulted in  mum monetary limit for filing appeals  of July 2024, total I-T under dispute was 2022, that are pending as onApril 1, delayed issue of refunds; ITD had to in the ITAT, HCs,and the SC to <5 crore, 10.48 lakh crore as of 2022-23. The 2024,are at around 3lakh. refund the inflated demands collected 20 crore, and R100 crore to honour withdrawal would be less than 1% of the The Indian tax administration hasso along with interest under S244A of IT court judgments.On settlement of cases total I-T under dispute. Thus, high-pitch far followed an "adversarial approach", Act, besides resultinginharassment and by courts in favour of the taxpayer, the  assessments beyond revised monetary  resulting in a huge backlog of cases and hardships to assessees.Audit observed CBDT should with draw all appeals in any limits aresignificant. unprecedented tax terrorism. Tax dis-  delays of up to seven years in giving pendingcaseinvolving thesame subject  1-Tunder dispute more than doubled putes arise for multiple reasons.The I-T effect to appeal orders by different matter within two months, as recom. from R4.98 lakh crore in 2014-2015 to department unnecessarily pursues  appellate authorities, with onecasestill  mended by the TaxAdministration Re- 10.48 lakh crore in 2022-23. So much appeals at all levels, regardless of out- awaiting orders for over 11 years.' It's a form Commission headed by Partha- for the promise of eliminating tax ter- come, since there is no penalty on offi. damning comment, but our finance sarathi Shome.The CBDT should also rorism! Corporation tax (CT) disputes cers for frivolous litigation. Also, bad  ministry seems unmoved. instruct officials to not litigate on mat- increased by 170% from 2.21 lakh drafting of tax laws lead tovaried inter- To stop repeat litigation on similar ters that are decided by the SCin favour crore in 2014-2015 to 5.98 lakh crore  pretations.HCsprovide divergent opin- issues,the Finance Act, 2022,inserted a of any taxpayer. Officials should be in 2022-2 3. CT in dispute for less than ions on the issue, creating confusion. new Section 15 8AB. It provides that a  penalised for failingto followthis. five years is  5.63 lakh crore,which is  The judiciaryalso is unable to address a collegium of high-ranking officials may  India has afailed assessment system 94% of the total disputes. High-pitch high volume of pending appeals. decide and intimate the commissioner and a delayed justice system. We need a assessments have continued over the An inefficient/ineffective tax admin- or principal commissionernot to file an transparent tax assessment system that past five years and litigation manage- istration also contributes to litigation.  appeal if any question of law for a tax- reduceslitigation, anda quick resolution ment has beenvery ineffective. The Comptroller and Auditor General's process. Only then will the promise to The Central Board of Direct Taxes report 14 of 2024,titled"Specific Com- his/her case or in case of any other tax- eliminate"tax terrorism", overhaul dis. (CBDT) Action Plan, 2024-25, provides  pliance Audit on Outstanding Demand payer for any year, which is pending pute resolution mechanisms, provide a data on pendingappeals (see table).New  on Income Tax Assesses',states, "Audit before the jurisdictional HC/sc. This  non-adversarial and conducivetax envi- appealsinstituted eachyear from 2020- noticed instances of exaggerated tax  new provision is infructuous tilla requi- ronment by the Bharatiya Janata Party 21 to 2023-24 is higher than ones dis-  demands such as not allowingcredit for  site collegium is formed to advise tax in its 2014 manifesto, be fulfilled. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 Read to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76549769

[Extracted from d7b147f7-5ca8-411a-8c4c-05d0868004ba.jpg]
Govt permits wheat Appare! exporters export to Nepal seek tax incentives The Government has per- mitted exports of two lakh TheapparelexpOrt Promo- tonneofwheat toNepal,accord- tion Council (AEPC) urged the ing to a notification issued on government to announce tax Saturday. incentives,including removalof The export is permitted  a provision requiring payments through National Cooperative to MSMEs within 45 days to Exports (NCEL), the directorate claim deductions and cu stoms general of foreign trade (DGFT) duty exemption on garment said in the notification.  machineryimports. The apparel Though export of wheat is exporters body has also banned to maintain domestic (minimum import condition). requested that an interest supply,outboundshipments are Thereisa$3.5 perkgMIPon equalisation rate of 5% be allowed on the basis of permis- synthetic knitted fabrics, to dis- announced in the Budget, sion granted bythe govemment courage inbound shipments of scheduled to be unveiled on Feb- to certain countries to meet cheap fabrics. ruary1 by finance minister Nir- their foodsecurityneeds andon "Import ofsyntheticknitted mala Sitharaman. request. fabrics...is restricted. However, Other demands include In a separate notification, import is free if CIF (cost, insur- extension of concessional tax DGFT said inputs imported for ance, freight)value is $3.5 and rate for new manufacturing synthetic knitted fabrics by above per kilogram. Further, units to encourage settingup of advance authorisation holders, inputs imported by advance new garment units; simplifica- EOUs(exportoriented units)and authorisation holders, EOUs tion inthe procedureofimports SEZs (special economic zones) and SEZs shall be exempted of trims and embellishments shall be exempted from MIP from MIP condition" it said. - under IGCR. Id- FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sun, 05 January 2025 read to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/7656042?

[Extracted from d9eae64f-eacf-4d1d-b4a6-4c42420ac720.jpg]
Banks' credit Microfinance firms' growthto be shares surge as MFIN subdued: Icra defers capping lenders ICRA HAS REVISED downwards its creditgrowth estimate to 10.5-11% forthe currentfinancial year from the earlier 11.6-12.5%. In its recent SACHIN KUMAR ON A HIGH  report, the credit rating agency said Mumbai, January 2 that with the banks focusing on Intraday onBSE(t),Jan2) reducingtheircredit-to-deposit(CD) SHARES S OF MICROLENDERS, CreditAccess Grameen  ratio and reducing their exposure to including CreditAccess Grameen, unsecured retail and NBFCs,the over- Spandana Sphoorty and Equitas 'Previous close all credit growth has moderated in Small Finance Bank, rallied on Thurs- 890.95 Close! the past few months. dayafter the Microfinance Institu- JOpen 954.1 A Consequently, credit and deposit tions Network (MFIN) decided to 891.00 7.09% growth has almostaligned witheach defer by three months the imple- other, and Icra expects this trend to  mentation of limiting the numberof Spandana Sphoorty Financial continue. lenders to three per borrower. 331 Credit growth for FY 26 may ease MFIN,theself-regulatoryorgani- Open .67 to 9.7-10.3%, weighed down by the  sation for the microfinance sector, persisting high CD ratio and imple-  hadin November proposed anewcap Close 1Previous  mentation of the proposed changes of three lenders per borrower and a 338.9 *close: 330.10  in the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) fewotherguidelines related tounder- framework,it said. writing, KYC, and reporting data to Equitas Small Finance Bank 'The persistinghighinterestrates 65.44 credit. bureaus. While the other 65.0 and the slowdown in credit growth  norms cameinto effecton January1, Close Open would impact the margins of the the rule on limiting the number of banking sector. In addition, the rate lenders to three per borrower will Previous transmissionon yields is estimated to. nowbe implemented fromApril 1. close: 64.93 be faster as and when the rate cut "The feedback we got from the cycle begins, which would further  institutionswas that the changes to compress the margins' said Sachin the IT systems, the business rule' whywehave given some time...from Sachdeva, vice-president & sector  engines,and all thattakes time. Todo April 1,it will be on." head-- financialsector ratings,Icra.  it right now from January 1, when Shares of CreditAccess Grameen "Nevertheless,theretum indica-  they have already done one major jumped nearly 10% in intra-day tors are likely to remain healthy change in August and September trade on the NSE before closingat with retum on assets estimated at. would be a little troublesome and 947, a 6.5% gain. Shares of Span- 1.1-1.2%for FY26and at 1.2-1.3%  can create some problems in imple-  dana Sphoorty closed at <339, up for FY25 compared to 1.3% in  mentation in the field, said Alok 3%, while the Equitas SFB stock rose FY24, he said. ---fe Bureau Misra, CEO, MFIN, adding:"That is.  nearly2%to close at 65. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 0.0 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76546153 read to Lead (e)

[Extracted from dc9479e4-655e-4d21-9b8e-e347b607d5ef.jpg]
AI/ML, OIL & GAS, FMCG MAJOR GROWTH DRIVERS White-collar hiring  9% in December JOBS uPDATE  Top metro cities 3 sectors which saw highest collectively jump in demand 1 posted Growth in December (%, y-o-y) 10% growth Al-ML 36  at year end Gcc  15  Hiring in banking, Oil & Gas ]13  financial services and 3 sectors which saw highest insurance fall in demand  sector saw Growth in December (%, y-o-y) Hiring trends by experience level  a decline ES  Insurance % jump in demand in December Freshers' -4  Retail 46 4 13/ 157  hiring saw .6% growth in Banking/ 0-3 I 4-7 ( 8-12 /13-16] 16+ -3 Financial Services  years December RAGHAV AGGARWAL 2024.It was primarily driven video editors and interior  New Deihi, January 2 by the creative, lifestyle and  designers were among the top retail sectors. These include roles hired, reflecting a bal- HIRING FOR white-collar jobs design (39%), beauty and  anced demandforvisualstory. in India rose 9% in December wellness (26%) and consumer telling and spatial innovation, compared to the same month  durables(19%). it stated.  in the previous year,a survey For the FMCG sector,which The architecture and inte- released on Thursday showed. has been struggling due to rior design industry stood out  The Naukri JobSpeak Index lower demand, the fresherhir- with a 39% growth in fresher reached 2,651 points during ing saw an 18% growth in hiring, contributing to the the month from 2,439 points  December 2024, marking the design sector's impressive last year, driven by high-skill highest monthly increase for 51% growth overall, the and strategicroles. the sector throughout the year. report added. The top sectors that were In 2024,senior profession- The report also revealed primary growth drivers in als (with experience of more that following the strong hir- December 2024 included arti-  than 16 years) saw the highest  ingtrends highlighted in Octo- ficial intelligence/machine jump in demand at 23%. ber, South India continued its learning(A1/ML)(+36%), oil & Morcover,apart fromtradi- robust performance into gas(+13%),FMCG(+12%)and tional CFO and CTO roles, December 2024, reinforcing. healthcare (+ 12%). demandsurged for specialised its position as a key driver of Top metro citiescollectively positions like chief safety white-collar employment. posted a 10% growth as the.  officers (14%), chief legal offi- While Chennai (35%) and year came to an end, it added. cers (12%), and chief medical Bangalore (21%) sustained "India'sjob market is enter- officers (3%). their impressive growth, ing 2025 with vigour, driven "The surge in fresher hiring Coimbatore. emerged as a by AI/ML growth and creative and evolving C-suite roles standout,  with  fresher sectors' said Pawan Goyal,  showswe're transforminginto hiring growing by 14%, chief  business officer, a more dynamic landscape," fuelled by a 52% surge in for- Naukri.com. Goyal said. eign MNC hiring.Hyderabad However, hiring in the "Traditional sectors like also posted 15% growth, banking, financial services, FMCG are embracing this reflecting the region's sus- and insurance (BFSI) sector evolution,combining fresh tal- tained appeal for high-skill saw a decline. ent with strategic expertise,"  and fresher rolesacross sectors The hiring of freshers, he added.  like IT,consumer durables,and which had majorly been The creative industry real estate. muted throughout 2024, saw showed an interesting techni- a 6% growth in December cal tilt during the month as (With inputs from PTI) Fri, 03 January 2025 FINANCIAL EXPRESS https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/765491 Read to Lead

[Extracted from e54a2e11-cfaf-4aec-a9e8-9ba9be00d8ea.jpg]
LESSONS FROM COP29 AND STRATEGIES FOR INDIA Accelerating adoption of zero-emission trucking. The way forward TRUCK LOAD  India's move to ZET requires a national framework offering  incentives for manufacturers and  COP29 has highlighted the operators. For example, rebates to urgency for zero-emission trucking, with India showing. DRiTiss t0 replacepollutingdieseltruckswith ZERO promise through initiatives like. ZET could accelerate uptake.  ChRistOphWoLFF eFAST and PM E-Drive; India can also explore models . E Nrssers like Battery-as-a-Service, where  Trucks represent just 3% of fleet operatorslease batteries from vehicle fleet, yet emit 53% TRANSPORT SECTOR contributes  energy providers to lower upfront 8.4% of total emissions in India, particulate matter; costs.Companies like Sun Mobility with freight transport, dominated  India has 12,146 public EV are pioneering battery swapping. by heavy-duty trucks, playing a charging stations, but for cars major role.Trucks represent just and LCVs, not for electric trucks. Looking ahead to COP30 3% of vehicle fleet,yet emit 53% COP30 in Brazil is an opportu- particulate matter. With truck sales nity to build on COP29's momen- projected to grow sixfold to 69 mil- infrastructure is expanding, it's  service buyers) and logistics service forward with the allocation of. tum. For India,it meansfostering a lion by 2070-71, addressing  insufficient for ZET. There are only  providers(LSPs) identifies e-truck  500 crore, aimed at accelerating. shift towards zET. By addressing freight-relatedemissions iscritical. 12,146 public EVchargingstations deployment opportunities in the adoptionof electric trucks. challenges, leveraging successes, Zero-emission trucking (ZET) that mainly cater to passenger freight use-cases with favourable and embracing global best prac- took the spotlight at recentCOP29, Global best practices vehicles and light commercial EVs cost economics and operational  tices,India can redefine itslogistics with initiatives such as the Global  -- medium andheavy-duty electric feasibility. By defining economic Policy and financial incentives sector,solidify itsleadership in sus- MoU on Zero-Emission Medium trucks require higher-capacity viability parameters and assessing  have proven pivotal in the EU and tainable freight, and set a prece- and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, and the chargers and strategically-placed real-world use-cases matched to  theUS.Electric truck sales globally dent for developingeconomies. Zero-Emission Vehicle Declaration. networks along freight corridors.  operational requirements,it deliv-  would continueto increase thanks India can leverage its position  India is a key player in the  India's flourishing truck market ers insights to drive investment in to strong policies, such as the EU's as the world's third-largest logistics Global South, and with advance- - projected to grow from 4 million freight electrification. The Indian CO2 standards for HDVs,which tar- market to drive innovation and ments in electric buses and initia- to 17 million by 2050 - presents government has recognised the get a 90% CO2 emissions reduc-  progress in decarbonising freight. tives like eFAsT, it can spearhead immense potential for economies importance of promoting EVs, tionby2040.Theheavy-dutyemis- the global transition to ZET. of scale.The Data Partnership Pro-  including ZET, as part of its efforts. sions regulation in the Us is The authoris CEO, Smart Frcight gram by Smart Freight Centre can  to combat air pollution and reduce expected to result in zero-emission Centre,an intcmational nonprofit The Indian landscape address these barriers. This collab- dependence on fossilfuels.The PM  vehiclesalessharesof upto 60%by focused on reducing cmission  Although India's EV charging  orative effortwith shippers (freight  E-Drive hastaken a significant step 2032 in different segments. impacts of frcight transportation FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 Read to Lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76555682

[Extracted from e5f497a2-a428-45d6-bb94-dbfb76505b01.jpg]
MSP paddy purchases cross last year's level SANDIP DAS The procurement, which IN STOCK New Delhi, January 3 began on October 1, faced delays in Punjab and Haryana Despite a sluggish com- due to storage limitations. mencement of procurement With surplus ricebeing evacu- caused by storage crunch in ated from Punjab in a phased Punjab, the government's  manner,procurement acceler- paddy procurement for the ated in states like Chhattis- 2024-25 season(October-Sep-  Paddy procurement for garh, Telangana, Andhra tember) has surpassed 48.3 the 2024-25 season has Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, million tonne (MT), slightly surpassed 48.3 mT reporting higher MSP pur. higher thanlast year. chases than last year. Officials noted that pro-  Rice stock in central Procurement by the gov- curement operations gained pool st andsat 60.59 MT ernment agencies have been momentum over the past six it is higherthan buffer completed in Punjab and weeks after the government Haryana, while other states norm of 761MTforJan1 began evacuating surplus rice farmers are still bringing in  stocks from Punjab,the largest their produce andit is expected  Govt holds 28.65 MT of contributor to the central pool to continue till March. rice, excluding 31.94 MT yet grain stock. Procurement in Punjab, to be receivedfrom millers The key contributions are which remains thelargest con- Punjab (17.35 MT), Chhattis- tributor with 17.35 MT of  Procurement target for garh (8.89 MT), Haryana (5.37 paddy, is down by 6% com- the current kharif season MT), Telangana (4.26 MT), pared to the previous year. is 49.21 MT of rice Uttar Pradesh(3.86 MT),Mad- The agriculture ministry hya Pradesh (2.48 MT) and has forecast record kharif rice Odisha(1.28 MT). hold 28.65 MT of rice stocks, production of 119.93 MT for The procurement drive has excluding 31.94 MTyet to be the 2024-25 crop year (July- bolstered the rice stock in the received from millers. June),compared to113.26 MT central pool, which currently Theprocurement target for in2023-24. stands at 60.59 MT-higher the current kharif season is FCIannually distributes 38 than the buffer norm of 7.61 49.21 MT of rice (equivalent to MT of rice under the Pradhan MT for January 1.As of Thurs- 73.27 MT of paddy),compared Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna day, the Food Corporation of to 52.4 MT (78.16 MT of Yojana and maintains buffer India (FCI) and state agencies paddy) procured last year. stocks for food security. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/765557 Read to LeaD

[Extracted from e7e6750c-9a08-4518-aa89-3680d453f1ef.jpg]
MEITY NASSCOM CoE "This AI-powered system utilised advanced imaging and machine 0 . vin-win solution defects in real time, ensuring only  high-quality products reached the market,"he points out. Similarly, a leading FMCG com- pany faced a critical challenge in o Platform becomes BESt Of bOtH WORLDS maintaining high-qualitypackag- ing for one of their flagship prod- match-maker for  MeitY Nasscom CoE drives ucts, producing1.5 lakhbottles per day. Manual inspection led to India Inc & startups adoption of cutting-edge technologies in manufacturing, human errors, fatigue,inconsistent defect detection, customer com- healthcare, retail, BFSI and more  SUDHIR CHOWDHARY  plaints, and revenuelosses. To resolve this, the company CoE addresses addresses LARGE FIRMS NOW recognise the implemented anAI-poweredquality critical industry challenges and potential of startups as partners in  inspection system by Jidoka Tech-  driving strategic innovation. Bring- connects big firns with startups nologies and Augur Al. Equipped ing the two together is MeitY Nass- offering tailored tech solutions with high-resolution cameras and com Centre of Excellence (CoE) for advanced AI, the solution provided IoT and AI.A government-industry Corporates benefit by tapping 360-degree real-time inspection, initiative, the CoE is emerging as a into agile and cost-effective detectingdefectswithin 0.8seconds growth catalyst,offering startups solutions that might otherwise and automatingrejections. resourceslike mentorsh ip,access to take years to develop in-house With an accuracy rate of 99.7%, infrastructure,and connections to the solution significantly reduced marketopportunities,while simul- defects and customer complaints, SUESHSNHA SAURASHSHARHAY SANEEAHALHOTRA taneouslyenablinglarge corporates saving the company $25,000 HEABNVEDANTASPARS to co-create innovative solutions FOUNDER & COO SYOO CEOHETYNASSCOM COE annually.Here again,the CoE played and stay ahead in the market. A Togethesarith Wespedalisein a pivotal role in facilitating collab- Startupsgain  quick glimpse of how it is playing MelCoe,we oration between thestakeholders. cmporering directaccessto matchmaker. "Being introducedto Vedanta by areaddressing Medprime Technologies,a CoE- industries with corporates,incre- MeitY Nasscom CoE has opened upa incubated healthcare startup,has real-world real-time asingtheirchances remarkable opportunity to collabo- developeda smart microscope -- an challenges ofiscaling rate on innovative solutions tailored operational  advanced diagnostic device that visibilityand to industry needs," said Saurabh innovative  can be remotely operated The CoE Sharma,the founder& COO,adding, efficiency facilitated an alliance betwcen growth solutions "we are excited to have been short- Medprime and Dr Lal Pathlabs; listed by Vedanta and look forward. Sr. Medprime connected 600 micro-. to co-creating solutions that drive scopesfor thelatteratvarious loca- operational excellence" tion for remote analysis. These. hotra, CEO, MeitY Nasscom CoE, the CoE played a crucia! role in con- He cites an another instance Amitesh Sinha,VP& head - Cor-.  microscopes capture high-quality told FE in an interview. necting Dnome with Srinivasa wherein a prominent pencil manu-  porate Venture Capital & Vedanta images and videos that can be Here's another example. Disease Farms,anearlyadopterof thetech- facturer was strugglingwithdefects Spark, Vedanta Resources, added:  instantly shared,reducing time and outbreaks pose a significant chal-  nology,and facilitating investment in theirproductionoutput,impact- "Startups bringagilityand ground- effort in diagnosis. "By fostering lenge to poultry farmers, threaten- opportunities with 8X Ventures. ing product quality and customer breaking ideas, while Vedanta such collaborations,' the CoE  ing productivity and livelihoods. Malhotra emphasises that the satisfaction. Recognisingthis chal- offers the scale and resources to Dnome has developed a molecular MeitY Nasscominitiativehas trans- lenge, the CoE introduced a vision- transform these ideas into impact-  in healthcare delivery through cut- diagnostic solution that predicts formed corporate mindsets for based defect detection solution ful solutions, creatinga win-win  ting-edge technology'Sanjeev Mal-  earlydisease in poultry.Here again, open innovation and co-creation.  developed by ahomegrown startup. environment"  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Mon, 06 January 2025 Read to lead https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76566460

[Extracted from ed03d7c6-afdb-4ae1-aa9c-6c47a8b9235e.jpg]
Virtual companions, real consequences  It is imperative to set up legal frameworks and ethical ROHIT KUMAR SINGH guidelines that safeguard users, especially those most Former secretary, department of consumer affairs, & mcmber, vulnerable, from unintended consequences of AI National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission THE HEARTBREAKING STORY ofSewell However, existinglaws such as the Infor- However, proving causality between stricter oversight and clearer guidelines. SetzerIlI,a 14-year-oldboyin the USwho  mationTechnologyAct (ITAct), 2000,and  anAI interaction and a tragic outcome like on howemotionally intelligent chatbots took his own life after forming an emo- the Consumer ProtectionActcould poten- suicide is legally complex. In India's cur- should interact with users. In Moffatt us tional attachment to an artificial intelli- tially be invoked in cases where harm is. rent legal environment, it would be diffi- AirCanada,the British Columbia Civil Res- gence (Al) chatbot on Character.AI, has caused byAI-based applications. cult to hold developers directly responsi- olution Tribunal foundAir Canada liable sparked debates about the ethical and Under the IT Act, intermediaries ble unless there was clear evidence that for misinformation given to a consumer legal responsibilities of AI developers. In (which could include platforms hosting AI  theyhad knowledge ofthe risks and failed by an AI chatbot on its website, and the Indian context, this case raises pro- chatbots) are gran ted certain protections to take appropriate action.  awarded damages. India can leam from foundquestions about how our legal sys- fromliabilityaslong as theydo not know- global examples by proactively introduc- The need for regulatory tem should respond to similar tragedies ingly allow harmful content orinterac- ingregulations that ensureAI systemspri- involvingAI.  tions. However, this protection becomes safeguards oritiseusersafety --especiallywheninter-  murkywhen dealingwithAl systems that India must work on specific regula- acting with vulnerable populations like AI's role in mental health: can engage in personalised andemotion- tions governingAI systems'ethicaluse in children and teenagers.This couldinclude A double-edged sword ally charged conversations. If an AI chat-  sensitive areas like mental health. Poten- requiring platfoms hosting AI chatbots AI-powered chatbots are increasingly bot were found to have contributed to a tial regulationscould include: to conduct regularauditsand risk assess-  beingused as companions,often designed user's mental distress or : Mandatory safe- ments or mandating that these systems to simulate human interaction and pro- suicide, could the plat- guards: Developers could include built-in mechanisms for detect- In the case ofAI vide emotional support. While such sys- formbeheld liable under be required to implement ingharmful behaviour. chatbots, one could tems can be beneficial for individuals Indianlaw?The answer is safeguards in chatbots far fromclear. argue that developers Call for collective responsibility seekingcompanionshipormentalhealth that detect signs of dis-  assistance,they also pose significant risks, owe a duty of care to tress or suicidal ideation, While regulatory frameworks are  Negligence and  particularly when interacting with vul- and direct users toward essential,addressing tragedieslike Sewell  users who may form nerable populationslike teenagers.  duty of care: Can  professionalhelp. SetzerIll's requires acollective effort from emotional attachments In Sewell's case,his mother believes developers be held  Transparency all stakeholders. Parents need to monitor that his obsession with an AI chatbot accountable? requirements: Platforms theirchildren's online interactions closely, basedon a fictional character from Game should be transparent especially when using emotionally intel- of Tlrones contributed to his mental  In India,negligenceis typicallydefined about how their algorithms work and ligent AI systems. Educators and mental decline.The chatbot responded in ways as a breach of dutythat results in harm to what datais beingused to simulate emo- health professionals mustraise awareness that may have deepened his emotional  anotherperson.Toestablish negligence,it tional responses.. about the potential risks posed by these distress rather than alleviating it. This  must be proven that the defendant owed . Ethical guidelines: Just as doctors. technologies. tragic incident highlights the potential a duty of care to the plaintiff; the defen-  andtherapists are bound byethical guide- As we continueintegratingAlinto our dangersofemotionallyintelligent Al sys- dant breached that duty; the breach lines when dealingwith patients, devel- lives in increasinglyintimate ways, it is tems that are not equipped to handle caused harmor injury.  opers creating emotionally intelligent AI  imperative that we establish legal frame- complex human emotionsresponsibly. In the case of AI chatbots, one could  systems should followethical standards works and ethical guidelines that safe- argue that developers owe a duty of care.  designedto protect users fromharm. guard users - particularly those who are India's legal landscape: to users who may form emotional attach- mostvulnerable -- fromunintended con- A lack of specific regulation Comparing international ments to these systems. If the chatbot's sequences. The tragic death of Sewell Set- In India, the legal framework sur- responses exacerbate a user's mental  approaches: Lessons for us zerIll serves asasoberingreminderofthe rounding AI is still evolving. Currently, health issues or fail to directthem toward The US, where Sewell's tragedy power technology holds over ourlives - there are no specific laws goveming the professionalhelpwhenneeded,this could  occurred, is also grapplingwith how best  and theurgent need for accountabilityin use ofAl inemotionally sensitive contexts. potentially be seen as abreach of duty. to regulate AI systems. There are calls for its development and deployment. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 Read to Lead  https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76541531

[Extracted from ed60bd5d-cd87-442f-9645-13b2043170b2.jpg]
FESTIVAL-LED DEMAND DRIVES GROWTH Banks post strong  growth deposits in 0 in advances,  O3 SACHIN KUMAR  on-year to 2.45 lakh crore. Its loan  Mumbai, January 3 ROBUST NUMBERS book was<2.17 lakh croreat the end of December 2023, while on a Growth y-o-y in third quarter.  STARTINGTHE NEW yearona pos-  sequential basis, the loan book grew itive note, Bank of Baroda, Bank of (%) Advances  Deposit 4.2%from 2.35 lakhcrore.Deposits  India, Yes Bank, and IDFC First Bank  in the third quarter grew 14.6% to  reported strong growth in advances 11.76 2.77 lakh crore from 2.41 lakh and deposits in Q3.The growth in Bank of crore in the same quarter of the pre- 9.23  the December quarter was driven by Baroda vious year. festival-led demand, provisional  Private lender IDFC First Bank's business updates released by the 14.98 loans and advances increased by banks on Friday showed. 21.9% to 2.22 lakh crore at the end Bank of India 1327 Bank of Baroda's. domestic ofthirdquarter from 1.89lakh crore  advances rose 11.76% year-on-year atthe end of third quarter of thepre-  to 9.63 lakh crore in the third quar- 12.6] vious financial year. Deposits grew ter against 8.62 lakh crore in the Yes Bank 28.8% to <2.27 lakh crore as of 9:7T December 2023 quarter, the lender December31,2024,against 21.76  said in astockexchange filing.. lakh crore as of December 31, 2023. Domestic deposits climbed The bank's current account sav- 21.3 9.23% to 211.65 iakh crore in the IDFC ings account (CASA) deposits third quarter against 10.67 lakh First Bank 32.2  increased 32.3% to 1.13 lakh crore crorein the December2023 quarter. as of December 31, 2024, from The bank's global advances rose 285,492 crore as on December 31, 11.65% to 11.72 lakh crore in the Bank of India's total domestic 24.75 lakh crore in the same quarter 2023. Its CASA ratio improved to  third quarter from 10.49 lakh crore deposits grew 13% to 6.79 lakh in the previous financial year. Global 47.8% as of December 31, as com-  in the same quarter of the previous crore in the third quarter of the cur- business grew 14% to 214.5 lakh pared to 46.8% as of December 31,  year.Global depositsjumped 11.82%  rentfinancial year from <6lakhcrore crore. Total global deposits of the 2023.Its credit-deposit (CD) ratio to 13.92 lakh crore as on Deccmber  in the year-ago period. Its domestic  bank rose 12%to 27.95 lakh crore. slippedto 95.7%asofDecember 31, 31, against 212.45 lakh crore in the  advances increased 15% to 25.46 Yes Bank's loans and advances in 2024, compared to 101.4% as of third quarter of the previous fiscal. lakh crore in the third quarter from the third quarter grew 12.6% year- December 31, 2023. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025  https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76553492  read to Leao

[Extracted from ee95ce0c-f827-4b37-948f-d4aef83ccad8.jpg]
FM MEETS REPRESENTATIVES OF FINANCIAL SECTOR & CAPITAL MARKETS Budget wish list: Lower tax on interest & fund for NBFCs FD FE BUREAU New Delhi, January 2 AHEAD Of THe Budget for 202 5- 26, representatives of the financial sector and capital markets on Thursday sought a lowering of tax on interest income from fixed deposits to align with capital gains tax on equities, a dedicated refi- nancing window for non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), and  incentives forlong-term savings. To support deposit mobilisation by banks amid the flight of funds from banks to the capital market, banks suggested finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to treat income from fixed deposits at parwith capi- tal gains tax on equities. Currently, Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman chairs a pre-Budget consultation with representatives from the financial FDincomeis taxedas per theapplic- sector and capital markets in New Delhi on Thursday. She will present the Budget for FY26 on February 1. An able income tax slab rates, with the margina! rate being 30% excluding M SMEs, small borrowers and envi financial institutions which are not. RUN-UP TO THE cess and surcharge, sources said. ronment-friendlyassetslike electric exempt from the TDSprovision. However, short-term capital gains vehicles, Aggarwal said. Nabard or BUDGET Sitharaman on Thursdaychaired tax rate for listed equity shares held Sidbi could be made administrator the seventh pre-Budgetconsultation for less than 12 months stands at oftherefinancing windowto NBFCs. withstakeholders fromthe financia! 20% while the long-term rate is Edelweiss Mutual Fund MD & 2025:26 sector and capital markets. The 12.5% for holding above 12 months. CEO Radhika Gupta said sugges- meeting was attended by NSE CEO After the Reserve Bank of India tions were also given regarding Ashish Kumar Chauhan, Gaja Capi- increased risk weightage on bank improvingefficiencyof capital mar- lakh foradmission of cases for recov- tal co-founderGopal Jain,HSBC Bank lending to NBFCs, large NBFCs are kets and increasing capital market ery which can be reduced to 1 lakh India CEO Hitendra Dave, Bank of now borrowing mostly from over- inclusion.  Recommendation  so that smaller NBFC players can be America Head of India and ASEAN seas while alarge number of small regarding incentivisation towards coveredunderthis,headded.Healso Economic Research Rahul Bajoria, and mid-sized NBFCs are now bor- long-term savings, both debt and said the government can consider Bandhan Bank CEO Partha Pratim rowing from large NBFCs,which is equity, were also made, sheadded. removing tax-deducted at source Sengupta, FIDC director Raman increasing their costs, said Finance To aid loan recovery by NBFCs, (TDS) on non-individual borrowers Aggarwal, HDFC Life Insurance CFO Industry Development Council Aggarwal saidthe Securitisation and from NBFCs as thereis noextra rev-  Niraj Shah, Edlewis MF CEO Radhika (FIDC) director Raman Aggarwal.  Reconstruction of Financial Assets  enue generated from this provision. Gupta, Pumartha InvestmentAdvis- "So, there is a very strong case for and Enforcement of Security Inter- "There is no benefit to the borrower ers chairman Rahul Rathi, HDFC direct refinance window providedto est (SARFAESI) Act needs some orto the lender.It iscausingan oper- pension management company's NBFCs.A specific fund can be dedi- tweaking. Currently, he said, the ational nightmare,'Aggarwal said. CEO Shriram lyer, and Devra cated for refinancing NBFC loans to limit under the SARFAESIActis <20 NBFCs are the only class of Research deputy ED Deepti George. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025  https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76547474 Read to LeAd

[Extracted from f0540734-3385-4f84-9ca6-654ada09a8f0.jpg]
Banks urge RBI to ease cash crunch with forex swaps CURRENCY WATCH  tomorrow-next forward points -  onshore points t/n (last price ) 10.0 8.0 - 6.0 - 4.0 - 1y 2.0 - 0.0- 2021 2022 2023 2024 Source: Bloomberg BHASKAR DUTTA A combination of seasonal fac- January 2 tors and a surge in global  investors'demand for the rupee SOme bIg Lenders in India  as they chase local initial public  have asked the central bank to  offeringshadcontributedtothe  inject liquidity using foreign- funding squeeze.. Tc exchange swaps as short-term Higher financing costs are ha currencyfinancing costs surged  posing a challenge for the RBI to a four-yearhigh,accordingto to support an economy that's  people familiarwith the matter. witnessing a slowdown in  In recent informal interac-  manufacturing activities. IO tions, some lenders asked the Whileit isunclear whether the Reserve Bank of India to con- RBI would agree to the  sider using FX swaps,where the requests, the side effects of. MORE  parties simultancouslyagreeto  such an operation might add and s exchange currencies in the spot  pressure on the rupee, which  been i  marketand reverse the transac- has been setting new record Netwo  tion at a future date, the people  lows since December. (OND said. Such operations could On Monday, the rupee's  said or effectivelyinjectrupeeliquidity tomorrow-nextforward points Ag into the financial markets. surged to a level unseen since tiative The requests came after an early 2021. Meanwhile, the indicator for front-end cur- one-year implied forward rency borrowing costs surged yields on the rupee hovered  on Monday, the people added,  near two-year highs,reflecting asking not to be identified as  high costs of guarding against the engagements were private. its volatility. BLOOMBERG Iaiysrajap!tya birLa.finance L 44  CA P1TAL Roglsires Ofce : ndan Ryon Comcourd Vrax Giara-362 206. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Fri, 03 January 2025 https://epaper.financiale Read to lead.

[Extracted from f1612f9e-5788-4c1c-bc7a-b22493b96424.jpg]
Zomato shares fall 5% after Jefferies downgrades stock RAGHAV AGGARWAL New Delhi, January 7 STEep DEcLINe  SHARE PRICES OF foodaggregator Zomato  Zomato fell around 5% on Tuesday Intra-day on BSE (), Jan 7 after global brokerage Jefferies 2611  downgraded the stock to'hold, cit- 258.45 ingintensifyingcompetition in the quick commerce space.The stock 258 dlosed down4.59% at 252.50 on  the BSE.Thebrokerage also reduced  its target price for Zomato by 18%, 255 . from335 to 275. Jefferies said 2025 is likely to be 252 -- ayear of consolidation for the com- pany. It had given a'buy'rating to. the stock in November, citing opti- 249 - mism over the foodtech major's Previous newly-launched District app. close:264.65 The brokerage has highlighted 246 concems about intensifying com- Open Close petition in thequickcommerceseg- ment, where Zomato's Blinkit faces However, the agency also challenges from Swiggy's Instamart, pointed out that Zomato is not Zepto and other emerging players. "excessively expensive" and it was Jefferies said this competitive land- not worried about the overall! scape is expected to exert pressure growth of the company. "We find on Zomato's profitability due to the Blinkit team the best in class; aggressive discounting strategies  and hence, there is no significant and efforts by its competitors to risk to its market leadership in the decpen market penet ration. medium term" "The franchise will face issues In contrast to Jefferies down- on profitability and may not be able grade, Bemstein on Monday men- to achieve consensus estimates on tioned Zomato as its top pick.It said profitability, in our view," Jefferies Zomato will focus on grabbing mar- said. ket share within quick commerce All the top players have acceler- through its dark store expansion ated network rollouts in the last few  strategy.Thecompanyplans to have quarters. The top three quick com- 1,000 such stores by FY25 and merce companies -- Blinkit, Insta- 2,000by the end of 2026.  mart and Zepto - have also raised "The near-term trade-off of  fresh funds for expansion. The sec- profitability for growth within tor will also see new entrants like quick commerce will set up the Amazon and Reliance. stage for faster margin accretion Jefferies said Flipkart Minutes from FY26,it said. appears to be the most aggressive Morgan Stanley has reiterated quick commerce platform at pre- its'overweight'rating on Zomato, sent.It isprovidingthe highest per- saying that its ongoing focus on centage of discounts at 22%.It is  profitability and improving growth followed by DMart Ready at 21%, visibility will drive revenue despite and Zepto and Blinkit at 15% each. the growing competition. FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025 https://epaper.financialex;  0.0 ReAd to Lead

[Extracted from f4c13d6f-b617-4dc8-851a-888479586787.jpg]
A $24-billion fund puts its religious stamp on corporate America JEFf GrEen & SAUeL KishAn They've had limited success so far,  related toLGBTQcauses. underperforming the S&P 500's January 3 INVESTMENT IN RELIGIOUS FUNDS IS RISING  Among everyday  Amongeveryday investors,there 2 3% gain. I investors, thereis.  portersand target morecompanies is growing interest in religious- GuideStone's biggest fund, the JIM LAKE, A devout Christian in Assets in faith-friendly ETFs and mutual funds through mid-2024 growing interestin this year,Lofland said. based funds, said Tim Macready, GuideStone Equity Index Fund, Washington state,said his religious  Total Assets in Faith-Friendly Funds ($ '000) religious-based funds Theinvestors"wantto honor the gained 20% last year, slightly 1001 i Lord with all of their resources,' he. at Brightlight, which advises opposed to practices such as abor-  said."They want their dollars being  investors on faith-based portfolios.  Index. Lake, a 64-year-old resident Assets in faith-friendly tion, transgender transitions or  invested in what they believe is the Assetsin faith-friendlyETFs and of Nine Mile Falls, Washington,  ETFs, mutual funds embryonic stem cell research. But God-honoringway"  mutual funds exceeded $100 bil- exceeded $100 bn for until this past year, it didn't cross 50 Religious investing has been lion for the first time last year,  being introduced to an adviser first time last year the retiree's mind that he could put  around for decades, often with a  according to annual study con- whose sole practiceis working with his moncy to work with his faith.  Religious investing has focus on more liberal ssues such as ducted by the fim. The analysis,  people investing in faith-frie ndly A financial adviser switched  been around for worker rnights and climate change. funds. "It really opened up my cyes Lake's portfolio over to a handfulof  decades, often with a But funds such as GuideStone have  mangers,likdly capturesonly apor- to the ability to remain faith- faith-friendly funds, one of which  focus on liberal issues  beenemboldened bythe rightward tion oftheactivity.The full universe 70. 20. 00. 82. 90. 70. 00. 00. 80. 90. 70. 00.000 was run by GuideStone Funds, a such as worker rights shift of US politics and the wave of  could range from $200 billion to competitive" Lake said. GuideStone 106-year-old investment firm in Source: Brightlight/Bloomberg: Note: Data for 2024 is through June conservative activists and lawyers $500 billion, Macready said. Net  operatesout of anondescript office Texas that oversees some $24 bil-  inflows have been 12% overthelast  building overlooking a frecway in who have already pushed compa- Ion in assets.The company caters to holder cloutto counter progressive  spread across conservative faith- traded fund manager; Republican nies to curtail orend programs that three years,he said.  northern Dallas, and maintained corporate policies such as funding  based private funds and state pen- state treasurers and teacher pen- support diversity, equity and inclu. One broker-dealer went from  such a low profile that Lofland said increasingly, newly active faith- Pride parades or covering employ-  sion funds that can be brought to sion funds; and Alliance Defending  sionefforts.Manypoint to anti-DEI aung nnn nnogn mouy hinnn ny based investors such as Lake and his ees' travel costs for abortions.  bear to influence company behav- Freedom, an influential conserva- activist Robby Starbuck, a non-  Stone in 2021 to more than 2,000  untilhe applied to work there.The wife. They're also zeroingin on banks for  ior, said Will Lofland, who oversees  tive legal group.  denominational Christian, and his now,Loflandsaid.Inspiresaid it had  firm mainly manages pension GuideStone is part of a nascent  allegedlyclosingcustomeraccounts shareholder advocacy at Guide- As they attract more money, success in getting companies such net new assets of $334 million last investments for Baptist churches, coalition of conservative Christian  on political and religious grounds. Stone. The loose confederation membersof the coalition are meet- year. ???? Its biggest ETF, Inspire yet Lofland saw an opportunity to investors that are starting to flex By some measures,there's now indudes Inspire Investing, the ing with corporate executives and  Harley-Davidson to backtrack on become more active. their muscles and use their share-  halfa trillion dollars in investments biggest. faith-based exchange- filing shareholder  initiatives  particularly those proposals. excluding reinvested dividends, BLOOMBERG  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Sat, 04 January 2025  https://epaper. financialexpress.com/c/76556065

[Extracted from f9c8f6cc-8f0e-4534-accc-67afafeb3a9e.jpg]
Higher yields & prices drive growth; no increase in area under tobacco cultivation FY25 tobacco exports to top 13,000 cr FE BUREAU oratories under the Export Inspec- GROWING SHIPMENTS New Delhi, January 1 tion Council (EIC). In the last 10 years, the number of labsh ave gone India's tobacco exports  INDIA's EXpORTs OF tobacco are upto 78 from 21in 2013-14. expected to cross 13,000 crore this Value ( crore) 12,005 The expansion of the networkof ,476 financial year, up from 12,005 labs with latest facilities had helped crore last financial year, due to exporters. From September 2017, 9,739 higher yields and prices, a senior the labs of EIC started testing con- official said on Wednesday. signments offish and fisheries prod- 6,408 6,496 6,880 In the last five years, tobacco ucts to the European Union (EU) for exports have grown by 87% from banned antibioticresidue.Since then. 6,408.15 crore in 2019-20.Dur- the number ofrejectionsperyearhas ing this period, the export volumes The government is not  gone down to 3 in 2024 from 15 in haveincreasedfrom218.84 million encouraging the growth in 2017.Apart from fish, the EIC also  kg to 315.51 millionkg.The output acreage under tobacco tests exports of milk, eggs, honey, of flue-cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco, basmati and non-basmatirice,fruits which accounts for 65% of the total  2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 (Apr-Nov)  India has committed at the and vegetables, poultry and tobacco exported from India, has  2019-2 2024-2 processed meat, and meat. World Health Organization  grown to 304 million kg in the last Peanuts forthe EU,Malaysia, Sin- not to promote tobacco  financial year from 234.8 millionkg gapore; rapeseed and soybean meal in 2019-20. The price of FCV has for China; black pepper for the USA;  gone up to  279.14 per kg last year ducer of tobacco in the world, after take up its cultivation. No new farm-  andanimalproducts arealsotested. from 2124 perkgin 2019-20. China India is the fourth-largest pro- ershavebeen registeredin thelast 10 Voluntary certification scheme for While FCV is the most traded ducer of FCV tobacco in the world, years.The reason forthe freeze is that non-notified food products requir- tobacco from India, there areother after China, Brazil and Zimbabwe. the world market for tobacco has ingcertification byimportingcoun- varieties that are produced and India is the second-largest exporter been stagnant and India has com- tries also pass through EIC. The exported from India.A combina- of unmanufactured tobacco, in mitted at theWorld Health Organisa- number of export establishments tion of higher yields and prices led terms of quantity,after Brazil. tion not to promote tobacco. has increased to 1,446 in 202 3-24 to the doubling of income of Despite the performance of the To promote other agriculture from 794 in 2013-14. The number 83,000 tobacco farmers in Andhra sector,thegover nment is notencour- exports by ensuring adherence to of EIC's export certificate accepted Pradesh and Kamataka. aging the growth in acreage under  international standards the goy- by importing countries doubled to Indiais the second-largest pro- ernment is also expanding the lab-. 120,afrerarexpe@pappin-14. tobaccoor bringing more farmers to FINANCIAL EXPRESS Thu, 02 January 2025 Read to Lea0 https://epaper:financialexpress.com/c/76541498

[Extracted from f9cbe40a-759e-4f06-b130-e5111d6fde6f.jpg]
lainer o Current status o Are QCOs posing o Fibre prices,sops of the textile and any challenges? for investment apparel sector THE PRESENTAPPROACH has limited INDIAN FIBRE PRICES,indludingthat the supply of certain raw materialsas of cotton and MMF, are 12%to 30% THE INDIANTEXTILE and apparel (T&A) many overseas suppliers are yet to receive higherthan those availableto  BIS certification Though exemptions for competitors.That percolates downthe  industry has performed well in the  imports byAA, SEZ and EOU units are  value chain,resultingin the erosion of current fiscal,with exports up by  allowed,these provisions apply onlyto the cost-competitiveness of the  physical exports, not intermediate garments and made-ups.The  compared to the same period in 2023. supplies.The manufacturers of certain govemment needs to ensure raw  This growthis primarily driven by the apparel segment, which sawan specialised downstream products who material availability at internationally  are dependent on imports of such raw competitive prices by removing 11.3% rise in exports.The surge is  materials due to non-availability import duty from all cottonvarieties  attributed torisingdemand for Indian BLUEPRINT T&Aproducts in major markets like the  domestically interms of required quality  as aso liberalising the import policy  and quantity have takena hit.This might forMMF fibres. USA and the EU.The industryis FORGROWTH Following the discontinuationof lead toa flood of imports of the next  optimistic about sustaining this  product in the value chain, suchas fabric  the Technology Upgradation Fund  momentum throughthe rest ofthe fiscal. India is a significant player inthe  and garments, which will affect the Scheme(TUFs), there isalackof interest ofthe domestic manufacturers.  investment incentives for MSME global textileand apparel market, What's holding back our 6.93% ranking as the world's sixth largest  As such,there is a dire need to re-evaluate units, whichconstitute the majorityof  t he policyregarding the Qcosand an the industry.MSMEs require TUFS- exporterin 2023.The sectoraccounted impact assessment needs to bedone like schemes withupfront capital foraround 8% of India's total exports GROWTHIN EXPORTS textile & apparel exports?  before announcing any further QCOs.To  subsidies and simplified proceduresto in 2023-24. DURINGAPRIL- meet the objective of having quality. However,uncertainties on the ensure capacity building,particularly NOVEMBER 2024, finished goods, QCOs may be started indownstream segments,to attract  continuation of some critical schemes DRIVEN BY 11.3% RISE Suchas the Remission of Duties and from the garments. more investments. India is looking at $100 billion worth of textile exports by. INAPPAREL EXPORTS Taxes on Exported Products(RoDTEP) 2030.Ahead of Budget 2025, Chandrima Chatterjee  foradvance authorisation(AA)/ special cconomic zones (SEz) and export- TOMAXIMISE THE suggests tweaks in the quality control orders for textile. o Leveraging free trade agreements  oriented units (EOU), aswell as the BEnEFITS OF FTas, Int crest Equalisation Scheme beyond  products and tackling non-tariff barriers faced by exporters THe GovTneEdsTO FOR THETEXTILE and apparel sector, Free various non-tariff/technical barriers that December 31; 2024,pose a potential  negotiate on the  to leverage Free Trade Agreements to the maximum Trade Agreements (FTAs) provide tariff  Indian exporters might be facingwhile challenge to the growth of the industry. TECHNICAL concessions, bettermarket access,anda exporting to these countries.For BARRIERS FACED BY  level-playingfield against global instance, theEU and the UKare coming EXpORTErS competitors. Recently India has signed. up with stringent quality measures; at trade agreements with important T&A  the same time,the Indian govemment o Quality control orders announced for textile products $350'bn  markets such as the UAE,Australia and through the BIS is also coming with Mauritius and has also signed a pact with Standa rds that are at par with quAlity ControLOrders(QCOs)  lies in the implementation approach.  international norms.Both sides may manufacturers, importers and sellers to. TARGET FOR  the European Free Trade Association are regulatory directivesissued bythe comply with the prescribed norms. Globally, such mandatory quality (EFTA).The industryis particularly keen negotiate for mutual recognition of INDUSTRY VALUE BY government to ensurethat specific The intent behind introducing QCOs standards areusually appliedtop-down,  on fina lising the FTA with the EU, the testing and quality normswhich will  2030, INCLUDING products meet mandatory quality  in textiles for certain man-made(MMF) beginning with finished goods.  second-largest export destination for further catalyse bilateral trade.  and safety standards. Unlike voluntary $100 BiLliOnin fibres, filaments and yarns is Whereas in India, the focus of quality IndianT&A products.  Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) enhancementof product quality. EXPORTS To maximise the benefits of FTAs,the The writer is secretary-gencralofthe standards ison raw materials such as  norms, QcOs are compulsory,requiring However, the industry'sprimaryconcem fibres and yarns. Confede mation of Indian Textile Industry government may also negotiate on the financialexp.epaprin>OOOO 00000 Do000 D0000  FINANCIAL EXPRESS Wed, 08 January 2025 https://epaper.financialexpress.com/c/76581373

[Extracted from fbe3c970-5790-410d-aa78-4f193fa15490.jpg]
Cutting through the hype on AI, RTO, and DEI FROM A QUICK glance at 2024's top business headlines,you'd think all compa- nies were pushing retum-to-office (RTO) policies,embracingartificialintelligence (AI), and banishing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) programmes. But as we head into 2025,let's remember that headlines don't always reflect reality. Start with RTO mandates.The media lovesa scary back-to-the-office headline. From the point of view of clicks, a strict five-day-a-week policy is gold. Even bet- ter? If that policy applies to liberal tech dweebs. Full points if it's a company that once promised to work remotely forever, like Xwhen it was still Twitter.  Theseheadlines gain attention because they play to some readers'anxieties -- and others'schadenfreude.But the realityis that most companies have accepted hybrid work. Even Elon Musk had to back off his declarations of full RTO at X; shortly after his initial, well-publicised demands, he conceded there'd be excep- tions. He also shuttered some of the company's offices,meaning that all staffin those locations had to go fully remote..  Iexpect thisdualityto ramp upin 2025,with more companies loudlyannounc- ingreturns to theoffice even as themajority quietly shrink their office footprints or continue toembrace hybrid arrangements. On to generative AI. Since ChatGPT burst onto the scene twoyears ago,we've seen endless speculation about what such technology could do and how workers might use it. In 2024, 75%of employees used generativeAI at work, accordingto a surveyby EY; that's much higher than the 49%who said,in 2023,that theyantic- ipated using it in the months tocome.. Butifthelast twoyears have been a"bullettrain',. forAI, as my Bloombcrg Opinion colleague Parmy Olsonwrote recently, we maybeheading fora"slow- down at the station' That slowdown could presage the next, more realistic phase in the hype cycle", a phrase coined by Gartner to describe technological change. First, a new technology triggers a surge in "inflated expectations", which is followed by a "trough ofdisillusionment"as the tech's limitations  become apparent.Gradually,people figure out how SARAH G the thing can actuallybe used,and people's expecta- CARMICHAEL tions settle somewhere inbetween.We maybehead-  ing therewith text-based generativeAl in 2025.  Bloomberg  Butif the newyear brings more measured cover- age of AI, I expect the opposite is true of DEI. In the last couple of years, right-wingactivists have made a punchingbag of it.And I don't think President-elect DonaldTrump's retun to the White House is going to convince themto hold their fire. But the realityis messier than the DEI-doomer headlines suggest. Yes, some very large companies, intimidated by activist shareholders and legal threats, have announced changes to diversity programmes. But despite the backlash, many com-  panies remain convinced thatit is still important to do the core work associated with DEI programmes: recruit fromthe largest possible talent pool; assess workers accu- rately and fairly, without implicit bias; and foster an environment free of overt racial prejudice,gender hostilityor sexualharassment.(Not least because suchdiscrimina- tion remains illegal and generates a farlargernumberoflawsuits than any"reverse dis- crimination'claims.) an approach that could actually yield better results for women and minorities.For example, rather than demanding every finalist pool contain at least one"diverse"  candidate (a backlash-sparking practice that has not resulted in more diverse hir- ing),HR could insist that managers hire according to clear,objective,consistent cri- teriaincludingaconcrete definition of"culturefit'Aninsurance companythatfol- lowed this more rigorousapproachended uphiring46% moreminorityapplicants, accordingto scholarship by Joan C williams. We might bedone with DEI as an acronym. But the practice, whatever we call it, will evolve to fit anewera.Evolving is somethingthatwe allhaveto do -- but we can't do it skillfully unless we can cut through thehype. FINANCIAL EXPRESSI Thu, 02 January 2025 @0 https://epaper:financialexpress.c Read to Leao
